
{1}

NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

       *       *       *       *       *


VOL. IX.--No. 219.]
SATURDAY, JANUARY 7. 1854.
[Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition 5d.

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS.

                                                        Page
  Our Ninth Volume                                        3

  NOTES:--
  A Strawberry-Hill Gem, by Bolton Corney                 3
  The "Ancren Riwle," by Sir F. Madden                    5
  Order for the Suppression of Vagrancy, A.D. 1650-51,
  by John Bruce                                           6
  Letters of Eminent Literary Men, by Sir Henry Ellis     7
  Burial-place of Archbishop Leighton, by Albert Way      8

  MINOR NOTES:--Grammars, &c. for Public
  Schools--"To captivate"--Bohn's Edition of Matthew of
  Westminster--French Season Rhymes and Weather
  Rhymes--Curious Epitaph in Tillingham Church, Essex     8

  QUERIES:--
  Domestic Letters of Edmund Burke                        9

  MINOR QUERIES:--Farrant's Anthem--Ascension
  Day Custom--Sawbridge and Knight's Numismatic
  Collections--"The spire whose silent finger points
  to heaven."--Lord Fairfax--Tailless Cats--
  Saltcellar--Arms and Motto granted to Col. William
  Carlos--Naval Atrocities--Turlehydes--Foreign Orders:
  Queen of Bohemia--Pickard Family--Irish Chieftains--
  General Braddock                                        9

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Lawless Court,
  Rochford, Essex--Motto on old Damask--Explanation
  of the Word "Miser"--"Acis and Galatea"--Birm-bank--
  General Thomas Gage                                    11

  REPLIES:--
  Rapping no Novelty, by Rev. Dr. Maitland               12
  Occasional Forms of Prayer, by John Macray             13
  Celtic and Latin Languages                             14
  Geometrical Curiosity, by Professor De Morgan          14
  The Black-guard, by P. Cunningham                      15
  The Calves' Head Club, by Edward Peacock               15

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--
  The Calotype Process--Hockin's Short Sketch--
  Photographic Society's Exhibition                      16

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--"Firm was their
  faith," &c.--Vellum-cleaning--Wooden Tombs--Solar
  Eclipse in the Year 1263--Lines on Woman--Satin--
  "Quid facies," &c.--Sotades--The Third Part of
  "Christabel"--Attainment of Majority--Lord Halifax
  and Mrs. C. Barton--The fifth Lord Byron--Burton
  Family--Provost Hodgson's Translation of the Atys
  of Catullus, &c.                                       17

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on books, &c.                                    21
  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                           21
  Notices to Correspondents                              22

       *       *       *       *       *


THE SACRED GARLAND, or THE CHRISTIAN'S DAILY DELIGHT.

 "Pluck a Flower."

A New Edition of the above excellent and popular work will shortly be
published in large type, crown 8vo., and may be obtained of any respectable
bookseller in town or country.

MILNER & SOWERBY, Halifax.

       *       *       *       *       *


QUEENWOOD COLLEGE, NEAR STOCKBRIDGE, HANTS.

_Principal_--GEORGE EDMONDSON.

_Mathematics and Natural Philosophy_.--Dr. Thos. A. Hirst, of the
Universities of Marburg and Berlin.

_Chemistry_--Dr. H. Debus, late Assistant in the Laboratory of Professor
Bunsen, and Chemical Lecturer in the University of Marburg.

_Classics and History._--Mr. John S. Mummery, L.C.P.

_Modern Languages and Foreign Literature._--Mr. John Haas, from M. de
Fellenberg's Institution, Hofwyl, Switzerland.

_Geodesy._--Mr. Richard P. Wright.

_Painting and Drawing._--Mr. Richard P. Wright.

_English, and Junior Mathematics._--Frederick Iliff, M.A., late Scholar of
Trinity College, Cambridge, and M.C.P.

_Ditto._--Mr. William Singleton.

_Music._--Mr. William Cornwall.

  TERMS.

  For Boys under 12 years of age 40l. per ann.
       "   from 12 to 16         50    "
       "   above 16              60    "

For further information see Prospectus, to be had of the Principal.

The First Session of 1854 commences on the 26th of January.

       *       *       *       *       *


PRINCE OF WALES'S SKETCH-BOX.--Containing Colours, Pencils, &c., with
printed directions, as now used by the Royal Family. Price 5s.

MILLER'S, Artist's Colour Manufacturer, 56 Long Acre, London: and at her
Majesty's Steam Colour and Pencil Works, Pimlico.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHRISTMAS PRESENTS--EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY.

AMUSEMENT FOR LONG EVENINGS, by means of STATHAM'S Chemical Cabinets and
Portable Laboratories, 5s. 6d., 7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 21s., 31s. 6d., 42s.,
63s., and upwards. Book of Experiments, 6d. "Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue" forwarded Free for Stamp.

WILLIAM E. STATHAM, Operative Chemist, 29c. Rotherfield Street, Islington,
London, and of Chemists and Opticians everywhere.

       *       *       *       *       *


DO YOU BRUISE YOUR OATS YET? New Oat Crushers, 2l. 15s. 6d., ditto 4l. 5s.
6d.; Chaff Cutters, 1l. 7s. 6d., ditto 2l. 19s. 6d. Mangles, 2l. 10s. 6d.;
Flour Mills, 4l. 10s. 6d.

MARY WEDLAKE & CO., 118. Fenchurch Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


SURREY ARCHÆOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

PRESIDENT.--His Grace the Duke of Norfolk.

Gentlemen desiring to join the Society, are informed that Copies of the
Rules, List of Members (upwards of 250), and Forms of Application for
Admission, may be obtained from the Honorary Secretary.

                              £. s.
  Annual Subscription         0  10
  Composition for Life        5   0

On and after January 1, 1854, an entrance fee of 10s. will be required,
from which those Members who join the Society during the present month will
be exempt.

  GEORGE BISH WEBB,
          Honorary Secretary.

46. Addison Road North, Notting Hill.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION.--An EXHIBITION of PICTURES, by the most
celebrated French, Italian, and English Photographers, embracing Views of
the principal Countries and Cities of Europe, is now OPEN. Admission 6d. A
Portrait taken by MR. TALBOT'S Patent Process, One Guinea; Three extra
Copies for 10s.

PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTITUTION, 168. NEW BOND STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC SOCIETY.--The Exhibition of Photographs, Daguerreotypes, &c.,
by the best British and Foreign Photographers, is now open daily at the
Rooms of the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall. Members
are admitted without payment. Admission, One Shilling. Catalogues Sixpence.

  ROGER FENTON, _Hon. Sec._

4th Jan. 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHYSIOGNOMY OF INSANITY.--A Series of Photographic Portraits from the Life,

By DR. HUGH W. DIAMOND, F.S.A.,

with brief Medical Notes. To be published in occasional Parts, small
quarto.

S. HIGHLEY, 32. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Will be published on the 10th instant, price 4d. No. I. of the

LIVERPOOL PHOTOGRAPHIC JOURNAL. Conducted by the Members of the Liverpool
Photographic Society.

Published by HENRY GREENWOOD, 16. Canning Place, Liverpool (by whom
Advertisements will be received) and may be had through all Booksellers.

       *       *       *       *       *


HEAL & SON'S EIDER DOWN QUILT is the warmest, the lightest and the most
elegant Covering for the Bed, the Couch, or the Carriage; and for Invalids,
its comfort cannot be too highly appreciated. It is made in Three
Varieties, of which a large Assortment can be seen at their Establishment.
List of Prices of the above, together with the Catalogue of Bedsteads, sent
Free by Post.

HEAL & SON, Bedstead and Bedding Manufacturers, 196. Tottenham Court Road.

       *       *       *       *       * {2}


NEW WORKS.

THE EDINBURGH REVIEW, No. CCI., JANUARY, 1854. 8vo., price 6s.

              CONTENTS:
  1. Lord John Russell's Memorials of Mr. Fox, and the Rockingham Papers.
  2. The Blind: their Works and Ways.
  3. Public Works in the Presidency of Madras.
  4. Ecclesiastical Economy.
  5. Education for the Rich and Poor.
  6. Thackeray's Works.
  7. The Machinery of Parliamentary Legislation.
  8. The Ottoman Empire.

LORD HOLLAND'S MEMOIRS OF THE WHIG PARTY. Edited by his Son, HENRY EDWARD
LORD HOLLAND. Vol. II. Post 8vo. Price 9s. 6d.

MEMOIRS, JOURNAL, and CORRESPONDENCE of THOMAS MOORE. Edited by the RIGHT
HON. LORD JOHN RUSSELL, M.P. With Portraits and Vignettes. Vols. V. and
VI., post 8vo., price 21s.

LETTERS OF RACHEL LADY RUSSELL. A New Edition, including several
unpublished Letters; together with those edited by Miss Berry. With
Portraits, Vignettes, and Fac-simile. 2 vols. post 8vo., price 15s.

A DEFENCE of the "Eclipse of Faith." by its Author; being a Rejoinder to
Professor Newman's "Reply." Post 8vo., price 5s. 6d.

ZOHRAB: or, a Midsummer Day's Dream: and other Poems. By WILLIAM THOMAS
THORNTON, Author of "An Essay on Over-Population," "A Plea for Peasant
Proprietors," &c. Fcp. 8vo., price 4s. 6d.

REMAINS, LEGENDARY and POETICAL, of JOHN ROBY, Author of "Traditions of
Lancashire." With a Sketch of his Literary Life and Character, by his
Widow. Post 8vo. (_In January._)

BOWDLER'S FAMILY SHAKSPEARE. A New Edition, in Volumes for the Pocket. 6
Vols. fcap. 8vo., price 5s. each.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY of B. R. HAYDON, Historical Painter. Edited, and continued to
his Death, from his own Journals, by TOM TAYLOR, M.A., of the Inner Temple,
Esq. Second Edition, with Additions. 3 vols. post 8vo., price 31s. 6d.

MAUNDER'S BIOGRAPHICAL TREASURY. A New Edition, thoroughly revised, and
brought down to the year 1854, by the insertion of numerous additional
Memoirs. Fcap. 8vo. (_In January_.)

Sir JAMES MACKINTOSH'S HISTORY of ENGLAND, from the Earliest Times to the
final Establishment of the Reformation. A New Library Edition, revised by
the Author's Son. 2 vols. 8vo., price 21s.

MR. MACAULAY'S CRITICAL AND HISTORICAL ESSAYS, contributed to the
"Edinburgh Review." New Editions, as follows:

  1. Library Edition, 3 vols. 8vo., price 36s.
  2. Complete in One Volume, with Portrait and Vignette, square crown 8vo.,
      price 21s.; calf, 30s.
  3. Another Edition, in 3 vols., fcap. 8vo., price 21s.

A GUIDE TO GEOLOGY. By JOHN PHILLIPS, F.R.S., F.G.S. Deputy Reader in
Geology in the University of Oxford, &c. New Edition (1854), corrected to
the Present Time; with 4 Plates. Fcp. 8vo., price 5s.

PROFESSOR BRANDE'S DICTIONARY of SCIENCE, LITERATURE, and ART. A New
Edition, corrected; with a Supplement and Woodcuts, 8vo. price 3l.

London: LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS.

       *       *       *       *       *


ARCHÆOLOGICAL WORKS BY JOHN YONGE AKERMAN,

FELLOW AND SECRETARY OF THE SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES OF LONDON.

AN ARCHÆOLOGICAL INDEX to Remains of Antiquity of the Celtic,
Romano-British, and Anglo-Saxon Periods. 1 vol. 8vo., price 15s. cloth,
illustrated by numerous Engravings, comprising upwards of five hundred
objects.

A NUMISMATIC MANUAL, 1 vol. 8vo., price One Guinea.

*** The Plates which illustrate this Volume are upon a novel plan, and
will, at a glance, convey more information regarding the types of Greek,
Roman, and English Coins, than can be obtained by many hours' careful
reading. Instead of a fac-simile Engraving being given of that which is
already an enigma to the tyro, the most striking and characteristic
features of the Coin are dissected and placed by themselves, so that the
eye soon becomes familiar with them.

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE of Rare and Unedited Roman Coins, from the Earliest
Period to the taking of Rome under Constantine Paleologos. 2 vols. 8vo.,
numerous Plates, 30s.

COINS OF THE ROMANS relating to Britain. 1 vol. 8vo. Second Edition, with
an entirely new set of Plates, price 10s. 6d.

ANCIENT COINS of CITIES and Princes, Geographically arranged and described,
containing the Coins of Hispania, Gallia, and Britannia, with Plates of
several hundred examples. 1 vol. 8vo., price 18s.

NEW TESTAMENT, Numismatic Illustrations of the Narrative Portions of
the.--Fine paper, numerous Woodcuts from the original Coins in various
Public and Private Collections. 1 vol. 8vo., price 5s. 6d.

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY of ANCIENT and MODERN COINS. In 1 vol. fcp.
8vo., with numerous Wood Engravings from the original Coins, price 6s. 6d.
cloth.

    CONTENTS:--Section 1. Origin of Coinage--Greek Regal Coins. 2. Greek
    Civic Coins. 3. Greek Imperial Coins. 4. Origin of Roman
    Coinage--Consular Coins. 5. Roman Imperial Coins. 6. Roman British
    Coins. 7. Ancient British Coinage. 8. Anglo-Saxon Coinage. 9. English
    Coinage from the Conquest. 10. Scotch Coinage. 11. Coinage of Ireland.
    12. Anglo-Gallic Coins. 13. Continental Money in the Middle Ages. 14.
    Various Representatives of Coinage. 15. Forgeries in Ancient and Modern
    Times. 16. Table of Prices of English Coins realised at Public Sales.

TRADESMEN'S TOKENS, struck in London and its Vicinity, from the year 1648
to 1672 inclusive. Described from the Originals in the Collection of the
British Museum, &c. 15s.

REMAINS OF PAGAN SAXONDOM, principally from Tumuli in England. Publishing
in 4to., in Numbers, at 2s. 6d. With coloured Plates.

A GLOSSARY OF PROVINCIAL WORDS and PHRASES in Use in Wiltshire. 12mo., 3s.

THE NUMISMATIC CHRONICLE is published Quarterly. Price 3s. 6d. each Number.

JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


ALBEMARLE STREET. _January_, 1854.

MR. MURRAY'S FORTHCOMING WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

I.

MURRAY'S BRITISH CLASSICS. Being a Series of newly edited and beautifully
printed Demy Octavo Library Editions of Standard English Authors, from the
most correct Text. Vol. I. 8vo. 7s. 6d. (To be continued in Monthly
Volumes.) (_This Day._)

II.

WORKS OF GOLDSMITH, printed from the last Editions revised by the Author.
New Edition. Edited by PETER CUNNINGHAM, F.S.A. Vignettes. (To be completed
in 4 vols.) Vol. I. 8vo. 7s. 6d. (Forming the 1_st Volume_ of MURRAY'S
BRITISH CLASSICS.) (_Ready._)

III.

GIBBON'S ROMAN EMPIRE: With Notes by DEAN MILMAN and M. GUIZOT. New
Edition. Most carefully compared, verified, and Edited, BY DR. WILLIAM
SMITH. Maps. (To be completed in 8 vols.) Vol. I. 8vo. 7s. 6d. (Forming the
_2nd Volume_ of MURRAY'S BRITISH CLASSICS.) (_On Feb. 2nd._)

IV.

THE TREASURES OF ART IN GREAT BRITAIN. Being an Account of the chief
Collections of Paintings, Sculptures, Miniatures, &c., in England. By DR.
WAAGEN, Director of the Royal Gallery of Pictures at Berlin. 3 vols. 8vo.

V.

HIMALAYAN JOURNALS; or, THE NOTES OF AN ORIENTAL NATURALIST IN BENGAL, THE
SIKHIM AND NEPAL HIMALAYAS, THE KHASIA MOUNTAINS, ETC. By DR. JOSEPH DALTON
HOOKER. With Map, Coloured Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo.

VI.

SILURIA; or, a VIEW of the SILURIAN and other PRIMEVAL ROCKS, and their
IMBEDDED REMAINS. By SIR RODERICK MURCHISON. With Coloured Map, numerous
Plates and Woodcuts. 8vo.

VII.

HISTORY OF LATIN CHRISTIANITY, and that of the POPES. By REV. H. H. MILMAN,
D.D., Dean of St. Paul's. 3 vols. 8vo.

VIII.

SUNLIGHT THROUGH THE MIST: or, PRACTICAL LESSONS drawn from the LIVES of
GOOD MEN. A Sunday Book for Children. Woodcuts, 16mo. 3s. 6d. (_Ready._)

IX.

KUGLER'S HANDBOOK OF PAINTING. (The GERMAN, DUTCH, FRENCH, and SPANISH
SCHOOLS.) Edited by SIR EDMUND HEAD. With Illustrations. 2 vols. Post 8vo.
24s.

X.

FARINI'S HISTORY OF THE ROMAN STATE. Translated from the Italian, by a
LADY, under the Direction of the RIGHT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P. Vol. IV.
(completing the Work). 8vo.

XI.

HISTORY OF YUCATAN, from its Discovery to the Close of the 17th Century. By
C. ST. JOHN FANCOURT, recently H.M. Superintendent of the British
Settlements in the Bay of Honduras. With Map. 8vo. (_Uniform with
Prescott's Mexico._)

XII.

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES COMPARED WITH OUR OWN. By H. S.
TREMENHEERE. Post 8vo.

       *       *       *       *       *


{3}

_LONDON, SATURDAY, JANUARY_ 7, 1854.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR NINTH VOLUME.

The commencement of a New Year, and of our Ninth Volume, imposes upon Us
the pleasant duty of wishing many happy returns of the season to all our
Friends, Correspondents, and Readers.

Those of the latter class, who have so earnestly impressed upon Us the
propriety and advisableness of placing our Advertisements on the outside
leaves of each Number, will see that their wishes have at length been
complied with. We trust they will be pleased with this change, and receive
it as a proof of our readiness to attend to every reasonable suggestion for
the improve of "NOTES AND QUERIES." We can assure them that it is no less
our desire to do so than our interest.

       *       *       *       *       *


Notes.

A STRAWBERRY-HILL GEM.

    "_Pour qui se donne la peine de chercher, il y a toujours quelque
    trouvaille à faire, même dans ce qui a été le plus visité_.--Henry
    PATIN.

I take up a work of European celebrity, and reflect awhile on its
bibliographic peculiarities--which may almost pass for romance.

It is a _Scottish_ work with regard to the family connexion of its author:
it is an _Irish_ work with regard to the place of his nativity. It is an
_English_ work as to the scenes which it represents; a _French_ work as to
the language in which it was written; a _Dutch_ work as to the country in
which it came to light. It was formerly printed anonymously: it has since
borne the name of its author. It was formerly printed for public sale: it
has been twice printed for private circulation. It was formerly classed as
fiction: it is now believed to be history.

But we have too many enigmas in the annals of literature, and I must not
add to the number. The work to which I allude is the _Mémoires du comte de
Grammont par le comte Antoine Hamilton_.

The various indications of a projected re-impression of the work remind me
of my _portefeuille Hamiltonien_, and impose on me the task of a partial
transcription of its contents.

Of the numerous editions of the _Mémoires de Grammont_ as recorded by
Brunet, Renouard, or Quérard, or left unrecorded by those celebrated
bibliographers, I shall describe only four; which I commend to the critical
examination of future editors:

    1. "_Mémoires de la vie du comte de Grammont; contenant
    particuliérement l'histoire amoureuse de la cour d'Angleterre, sous le
    regne de Charles II._ A Cologne, chez Pierre Marteau, 1713. 12^o, pp. 4
    + 428.

    "AVIS DU LIBRAIRE.--Il seroit inutile de recommander ici la lecture des
    mémoires qui composent ce volume: le titre seul de _Mémoires du comte
    de Grammont_ réveillera sans doute la curiosité du public pour un homme
    qui lui est déjà si connu d'ailleurs, tant par la réputation qu'il a
    sçu se faire, que par les différens portraits qu'en ont donnez Mrs. de
    Bussi et de St. Evremont, dans leurs ouvrages; et l'on ne doute
    nullement qu'il ne reçoive, avec beaucoup de plaisir, un livre, dans
    lequel on lui raconte ses avantures, sur ce qu'il en a bien voulu
    raconter lui-même à celui qui a pris la peine de dresser ces mémoires.

    "Outre les avantures du comte de Grammont, ils contiennent
    particuliè[re]ment l'histoire amoureuse de la cour d'Angleterre, sous
    le regne de Charles II; et, comme on y découvre quantité de choses, qui
    ont été tenues cachées jusqu'à présent, et qui font voir jusqu'à quel
    excès on a porté le déréglement dans cette cour, ce n'est pas le
    morceau le moins intéressant de ces mémoires.

    "On les donne ici sur une copie manuscrite, qu'on en a reçue de Paris:
    et on les a fait imprimer avec le plus d'exactitude qu'il a été
    possible."

The above is the _first_ edition. The imprint is fictitious. It was much
used by the Elzévirs, and by other Dutch printers. The second edition, with
the same imprint, is dated in 1714 (Cat. de Guyon de Sardière, No. 939.).
The third edition was printed at Rotterdam in 1716. The _avis_ is omitted
in that edition, and in all the later impressions which I have seen. Its
importance as a history of the publication induces one to revive it. There
is also an edition printed at Amsterdam in 1717 (Cat. de Lamy, No. 3918.);
and another at La Haye in 1731 (Cat. de Rothelin, No. 2534*). Brunet omits
the edition of 1713. Renouard and Quérard notice it too briefly.

    2. "_Memoires du comte de Grammont, par monsieur le comte Antoine
    Hamilton. Nouvelle edition, augmentée d'un discours préliminaire mêlé
    de prose et de vers, par le même auteur, et d'un avertissement
    contenant quelques anecdotes de la vie du comte Hamilton._ A Paris,
    chez la veuve Pissot, Quay de Conti, à la croix d'or. 1746." 12^o. pp.
    24 + 408.

    "AVERTISSEMENT. Le public a fait un accueil si favorable à ces
    _Mémoires_, que nous avons crû devoir en procurer une nouvelle edition.
    Outre les avantures du comte de Grammont, très-piquantes par
    elles-mêmes, ils contiennent l'histoire amoureuse d'Angleterre sous le
    regne de Charles II. Ils sont d'ailleurs écrits d'une maniére si vive
    et si ingénieuse, qu'ils ne laisseroient pas de plaire infiniment,
    quand la matiére en seroit moins interessante.

    "Le héros de ces _Mémoires_ a trouvé dans le comte Hamilton un
    historien digne de lui. Car on n'ignore plus qu'ils sont partis de la
    même main à qui l'on doit encore d'autres ouvrages frappés au même
    coin.

    "Nous avons enrichi cette edition d'un discours mêlé de prose et de
    vers, où l'on exagére la difficulté qu'il y a de bien répresenter le
    comte de Grammont. On reconnoîtra facilement que ce discours est du
    même auteur que les _Mémoires_, et qu'il devoit naturellement en {4}
    orner le frontispice. Au reste il ne nous appartient point d'en
    apprécier le mérite. Nous dirons seulement que des personnes d'un goût
    sûr et délicat le comparent au _Voyage de Chapelle_, et qu'ils y
    trouvent les mêmes graces, le même naturel et la même légereté.

    "Il ne nous reste plus qu'à dire un mot de M. Hamilton lui-même, auteur
    de ces mémoires, et du discours qui les précede.

    "Antoine Hamilton dont nous parlons, étoit de l'ancienne et illustre
    maison de ce nom en Ecosse. Il nâquit en Irlande. Il eut pour pére le
    chevalier Georges Hamilton, petit-fils du duc d'Hamilton, qui fut aussi
    duc de Châtelleraud en France.

    "Sa mére étoit madame Marie Butler, soeur du duc d'Ormond, viceroi
    d'Irlande, et grand maître de la maison du roi Charles.

    "Dans les révolutions qui arrivérent du tems de Cromwel, ils suivirent
    le roi et le duc d'Yorck son frére qui passérent en France. Ils y
    amenérent leur famille. Antoine ne faisoit à peine que de naître.

    "Lorsque le roi fut rétabli sur son trône, il ramena en Angleterre les
    jeux et la magnificence. On voit dans les mémoires de Grammont combien
    cette cour étoit brillante; la curiosité y attira le comte de Grammont.
    Il y vit mademoiselle d'Hamilton, il ne tarda pas à sentir le pouvoir
    de ses charmes, il l'épousa enfin; et c'est la tendresse qu'_Antoine_
    avoit pour sa soeur, qui l'engagea à faire plusieurs voyages en France,
    où il étoit élevé, et où il a passé une partie de sa vie.

    "M. Antoine Hamilton étant catholique, il ne put obtenir d'emploi en
    Angleterre; et rien ne fut capable d'ébranler ni sa religion, ni la
    fidélité qu'il devoit à son roi.

    "Le roi Jaques étant monté sur le trône, il lui donna un regiment
    d'infanterie en Irlande et le gouvernement de Limeric. Mais ce prince,
    ayant été obligé de quitter ses etats le comte Hamilton repassa avec la
    famille royale en France. C'est-là et pendant le long séjour qu'il y a
    fait, qu'il a composé les divers ouvrages qui lui ont acquis tant de
    réputation. Il mourut à S. Germain le 21 Avril 1720. dans de grands
    sentimens de piété, et après avoir reçu les derniers sacremens. Il
    étoit âgé alors d'environ 74 ans. Il a mérité les regrets de tous ceux
    qui avoient le bonheur de le connoître. Né sérieux, il avoit dans
    l'esprit tous les agrémens imaginables; mais ce qui est plus digne de
    louanges, à ces agrémens, qui vent frivoles sans la vertu, il joignoit
    toutes les qualitéz du coeur."

If the above _avertissement_ first appeared in 1746, which I have much
reason to conclude, this is certainly a very important edition. The
biographical portion of the advertisement is the foundation of the later
memoirs of Hamilton. In the Moréri of 1759, we have it almost _verbatim_,
but taken from the _Oeuvres du comte Antoine Hamilton_, 1749. Neither
Brunet, nor Renouard, nor Quérard notice the edition of 1746. The copy
which I have examined has the book-plate G. III. R.

    3. "_Memoires du comte de Grammont, par le C. Antoine Hamilton_. 1760."
    [De l'imprimerie de Didot, rue Pavée, 1760.] 12^o. I. partie, pp. 36 +
    316. II. partie, pp. 4 + 340.

This edition has the same _avertissement_ as that of 1746. The imprint is
M.DCC.LX. The type resembles our small pica, and the paper has the
water-mark _Auvergne_ 1749. At the end of the second part appears, _De
l'imprimerie de Didot, rue Pavée_, 1760. This must be M. François Didot of
Paris. I find the same colophon in the _Bibliographie instructive_, 1763-8.
v. 631. This very neat edition has also escaped the aforesaid bibliographic
trio!

    4. "_Memoires du comte de Grammont, par monsieur le comte Antoine
    Hamilton_. _Nouvelle edition_, _augmentée de notes et d'eclaircissemens
    necessaires, par M. Horace Walpole_. Imprimée à Strawberry-Hill. 1772."
    4^o, pp. 24 + 294. 3 portraits.

    [Dedication.] "À madame....

    "L'éditeur vous consacre cette édition, comme un monument de son
    amitié, de son admiration, et de son respect; à vous, dont les grâces,
    l'esprit, et le goût retracent au siècle présent le siècle de Louis
    quatorze et les agrémens de l'auteur de ces mémoires."

Such are the inscriptions on the _Strawberry-Hill gem_. Much has been said
of its brilliancy--and so, for the sake of novelty, I shall rather dwell on
its flaws.

The volume was printed at the private press of M. Horace Walpole at
Strawberry-Hill, and the impression was limited to one hundred copies, of
which thirty were sent to Paris. So much for its attractions--now for its
flaws. In reprinting the dedication to madame du Deffand, I had to insert
_eight_ accents to make decent French of it! The _avis_ is a mere medley of
fragments: I could not ask a compositor to set it up! The _avertissement_
is copied, without a word of intimation to that effect, from the edition of
1746. The notes to the _épître_ are also copied from that edition, except
_L'abbé de Chaulieu_; and two of the notes to the memoirs are from the same
source. The other notes, in the opinion of sir William Musgrave, are in
part taken from an erroneous printed _Key_. Where are the
_éclaircissements_? I find none except a list of proper names--of which
about one-third part is omitted!

In quoting Brunet, I have used the fourth edition of the _Manuel du
libraire_, 1842-4; in quoting Renouard, I refer to the _avis_ prefixed to
the _Oeuvres du comte Antoine Hamilton_, 1812; in quoting Quérard, to _La
France littéraire_, 1827-39. The other references are to sale catalogues.
The titles of the books described, and the extracts, are given _literatim_,
and, except as above noted, with the same accentuation and punctuation.

To revert to the question of a new edition: I should prefer the French
text, for various reasons, to any English translation that could be made.
That of Abel Boyer is wretched burlesque!

The chief requirements of a French edition would be, a collation of the
editions of 1713 and 1746--the rectification of the names of persons {5}
and places--a revision of the punctuation--and a strict conformity, as to
general orthography and accentuation, with the _Dictionnaire de l'Académie
française_, as edited in 1835. The substance of the _avis_ of 1713 might be
stated in a preface; and the _avertissement_ of 1746, a clever composition,
would serve as an introduction and memoir of the author. Those who doubt
its value may consult the _Grand dictionnaire historique_, and the
_Biographie universelle_. As one hundred and sixty persons are noticed in
the work, brevity of annotation is very desirable. It would require much
research. The manuscript notes of sir William Musgrave would, however, be
very serviceable--more so, I conceive, than the printed notes of M. Horace
Walpole.

As the indications of a projected re-impression may be fallacious, I shall
conclude with a word of advice to inexperienced collectors. Avoid the
_jolie édition_ printed at Paris by F. A. Didot, _par ordre de monseigneur
le comte d'Artois_, in 1781. It is the very worst specimen of editorship.
Avoid also the London edition of 1792. The preface is a piratical
pasticcio; the verbose notes are from the most accessible books; the
portraits, very unequal in point of execution, I believe to be chiefly
copies of prints--not _d'après des tableaux originaux_. The most desirable
editions are, 1. The edition of 1760; 2. That of 1772, as a _curiosity_; 3.
That edited by M. Renouard, Paris, 1812, 18^o. 2 vols.; 4. That edited by
M. Renouard in 1812, 8^o. with eight portraits. The latter edition forms
part of the _Oeuvres du comte Antoine Hamilton_ in 3 vols. It seldom occurs
for sale.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "ANCREN RIWLE."

The publication of this valuable semi-Saxon or Early English treatise on
the duties of monastic life, recently put forth by the Camden Society,
under the editorship of the Rev. James Morton, is extremely acceptable, and
both the Society and the editor deserve the cordial thanks of all who are
interested in the history of our language. As one much interested in the
subject, and who many years since entertained the design now so ably
executed by Mr. Morton, I may perhaps be allowed to offer a few remarks on
the work itself, and on the manuscripts which contain it. Mr. Morton is
unquestionably right in his statement that the Latin MS. in Magdalen
College, Oxford, No. 67., is only an abridged translation of the original
vernacular text. Twenty-three years ago I had access to the same MS. by
permission of the Rev. Dr. Routh, the President of Magdalen College, and
after reading and making extracts from it[1], I came to the same conclusion
as Mr. Morton. It hardly admits, I think, of a doubt; for even without the
internal evidence furnished by the Latin copy, the age of the manuscripts
containing the Early English text at once set aside the supposition that
Simon of Ghent (Bishop of Salisbury from 1297 to 1315) was the original
author of the work. The copy in Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, I have
not seen, but of the three copies in the British Museum I feel confident
that the one marked Cleopatra C. vi. was actually written before Bishop
Simon of Ghent had emerged from the nursery. This copy is not only the
oldest, but the most curious, from the corrections and alterations made in
it by a somewhat later hand, the chief of which are noticed in the printed
edition. The collation, however, of this MS. might have been, with
advantage, made more minutely, for at present many readings are passed
over. Thus, at p. 8., for _unweote_ the second hand has _congoun_; at p.
62., for _herigen_ it has _preisen_; at p. 90., for _on cheafle_, it reads
_o muþe_, &c. The original hand has also some remarkable variations, which
would cause a suspicion that this was the first draft of the author's work.
Thus, at p. 12., for _scandle_, the first hand has _schonde_; at p. 62.,
for _baldeliche_ it reads _bradliche_; at p. 88., for _nout for_, it has
_anonden_, and the second hand _aneust_; at p. 90., for _sunderliche_ it
reads _sunderlepes_, &c. All these, and many other curious variations, are
not noticed in the printed edition. On the fly-leaf of this MS. is written,
in a hand of the time of Edward I., as follows: "_Datum abbatie et
conventui de Leghe per Dame M. de Clare._" The lady here referred to was
doubtless Maud de Clare, second wife of Richard de Clare, Earl of Hereford
and Gloucester, who, at the beginning of the reign of Edward I., is known
to have changed the Augustinian Canons of Leghe, in Devonshire, into an
abbess and nuns of the same order; and it was probably at the same period
she bestowed this volume on them. The conjecture of Mr. Morton, that Bishop
Poore, who died in 1237, might have been the original author of the _Ancren
Riwle_, is by no means improbable, and deserves farther inquiry. The error
as to Simon of Ghent is due, in the first place, not to Dr. Smith, but to
Richard James (Sir Robert Cotton's librarian), who wrote on the fly-leaves
of all the MSS. in the Cottonian Library a note of their respective
contents, and who is implicitly followed by Smith. Wanley is more blamable,
and does not here evince his usual critical accuracy, but (as remarked by
Mr. Morton) he could only have looked at a few pages of the work. The real
fact seems to be that Simon of Ghent made the abridged Latin version of the
seven books of the _Riwle_ now preserved in Magdalen College, and this
supposition may well enough be reconciled with the words of Leland, who
says of him,--

    "Edidit inter cætera, libros _septem_ de Vita Solitaria, {6} ad
    Virgines Tarentinas, Duriæ cultrices."--_Comment_., p. 316.

A second copy of the Latin version was formerly in the Cottonian collection
(Vitellius E. vii.), but no fragment of it has hitherto been recovered from
the mass of burnt crusts and leaves left after the fire of 1731. I am
happy, however, to add, that within the last few months, the manuscript
marked Vitellius F. vii., containing a French translation of the _Riwle_,
made in the fourteenth century (very closely agreeing with the vernacular
text), has been entirely restored, except that the top margins of the
leaves have been burnt at each end of the volume. This damage has,
unfortunately, carried away the original heading of the treatise, and the
title given us by Smith is copied partly from James's note. This copy of
the French version appears to be unique, and is the more interesting from
its having a note at the end (now half obliterated by the fire), stating
that it belonged to Eleanor de Bohun, Duchess of Gloucester, whose motto is
also added, "_Plesance. M [mil]. en vn_." The personage in question was
Eleanor, daughter of Humphrey de Bohun, Earl of Hereford, and wife of
Thomas of Woodstock, who ended her days as a nun in the convent at Barking
in 1399. Is any other instance known of the use of this motto? Before I
conclude these brief remarks, I may mention a _fifth_ copy of the _Ancren
Riwle_, which has escaped the notice of Mr. Morton. It is buried in the
enormous folio manuscript of old English poetry and prose called the Vernon
MS., in the Bodleian Library, written in the reign of Richard II., and
occurs at pp. 371^b.--392. In the table of contents prefixed to this volume
it is entitled "The Roule of Reclous;" and although the phraseology is
somewhat modernised, it agrees better with the MS. Cleopatra C. vi, than
with Nero A. xiv., from which Mr. Morton's edition is printed. This copy is
not complete, some leaves having been cut out in the sixth book, and the
scribe leaves off at p. 420. of the printed edition.

It is very much to be wished that Mr. Morton would undertake the task of
editing another volume of legends, homilies, and poems, of the same age as
the _Ancren Riwle_, still existing in various manuscripts. One of the
homilies, entitled "Sawles Warde," in the Bodley MS. 34., Cott. MS. Titus
D. xviii., and Old Royal MS. 17A. xxvii., is very curious, and well
deserves to be printed.

F. MADDEN.

British Museum.

[Footnote 1: At p. viii. of Mr. Morton's preface, for "yerze" (eye), my
extracts read "yze."]

       *       *       *       *       *

ORDER FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF VAGRANCY, A.D. 1650-51.

At a time when the question of "What is to be done with our vagrant
children?" is occupying the attention of all men of philanthropic minds, it
may be worth while to give place in your pages to the following order
addressed by the Lord Mayor of London to his aldermen in 1650-51, which
applies, amongst other things, to that very subject. It will be seen that
some of the artifices of beggary in that day were very similar to those
with which we are now but too familiar. The difference of treatment between
vagrant children over and under nine years of age, is worthy of
observation.

    "BY THE MAYOR.

    "Forasmuch as of late the constables of this city have neglected to put
    in execution the severall wholsome laws for punishing of vagrants, and
    passing them to the places of their last abode, whereby great scandall
    and dishonour is brought upon the government of this city; These are
    therefore to will and require you, or your deputy, forthwith to call
    before you the several constables within your ward, and strictly to
    charge them to put in execution the said laws, or to expect the penalty
    of forty shillings to be levyed upon their estates, for every vagrant
    that shal be found begging in their several precincts. And to the end
    the said constables may not pretend ignorance, what to do with the
    several persons which they shal find offending the said laws, these are
    further to require them, that al aged or impotent persons who are not
    fit to work, be passed from constable to constable to the parish where
    they dwel; and that the constable in whose ward they are found begging,
    shal give a passe under his hand, expressing the place where he or she
    were taken, and the place whither they are to be passed. _And for
    children under five years of age, who have no dwelling, or cannot give
    an account of their parents, the parish where they are found are to
    provide for them; and for those which shall bee found lying under
    stalls, having no habitation or parents (from five to nine years old),
    are to be sent to the Wardrobe House_[2], _to be provided for by the
    corporation for the poore; and all above nine years of age are to be
    sent to Bridewel._ And for men or women who are able to work and goe
    begging with young children, such persons for the first time to be
    passed to the place of their abode as aforesaid; and being taken
    againe, they are to be carryed to Bridewel, to be corrected according
    to the discretion of the governours. _And for those persons that shal
    be found to hire children, or go begging with children not sucking,
    those children are to be sent to the several parishes wher they dwel,
    and the persons so hiring them to Bridewel, to be corrected and passed
    away, or kept at work there, according to the governour's discretion._
    And for al other vagrants and beggars under any pretence whatsoever, to
    be forthwith sent down to Bridewel to be imployed and corrected,
    according to the statute laws of this commonwealth, except before
    excepted; and the president and governours of Bridewel are hereby
    desired to meet twice every week to see to the execution of this
    Precept. _And the steward of the workehouse called the Wardrobe, is {7}
    authorised to receive into that house such children as are of the age
    between five and nine, as is before specified and limited_; and the
    said steward is from time to time to acquaint the corporation for the
    poor, what persons are brought in, to the end they may bee provided
    for. Dated this four and twentyeth day of January, 1650.

    SADLER."

JOHN BRUCE.

[Footnote 2: I suppose this to have been the ancient building known by the
name of The Royal, or The Tower Royal, used for a time as the Queen's
Wardrobe. It will be seen that it was occupied in 1650 as a workhouse.]

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS OF EMINENT LITERARY MEN.

    Sir,

    I send you, as a New Year's Gift for your "N. & Q.," transcripts of
    half-a-dozen Letters of Eminent Literary Men, specimens of whose
    correspondence it will do your work no discredit to preserve,

  Yours faithfully,
          HENRY ELLIS.

British Museum, Dec. 26, 1853.

I.

_Dean Swift to_ * * * * * * *.

[MS. Addit., Brit. Mus., 12,113. _Orig_.]

    Belcamp, Mar. 14th.

    Sir,

    Riding out this morning to dine here with Mr. Grattan, I saw at his
    house the poor lame boy that gives you this: he was a servant to a
    plow-man near Lusk, and while he was following the plow, a dog bit him
    in the leg, about eleven weeks ago. One Mrs. Price endeavored six weeks
    to cure him, but could not, and his Master would maintain him no
    longer. Mr. Grattan and I are of opinion that he may be a proper object
    to be received into Dr. Stephen's Hospital. The boy tells his story
    naturally, and Mr. Grattan and I took pity of him. If you find him
    curable, and it be not against the rules of the Hospitall, I hope you
    will receive him.

  I am, Sir,
    Your most humble Servt.
          JONATH. SWIFT.

II.

_The Rev. Thomas Baker to Mr. Humphry Wanley_.

[Harl. MS. 3778, Art. 43. _Orig_.]

    Cambridge, Oct. 16th [1718].

    Worthy Sir

    I am glad to hear Mrs. Elstob is in a condition to pay her debts, for
    me she may be very easy: tho' I could wish for the sake of the
    University (tho' I am no way engaged, having taken up my obligation)
    that you could recover the Book, or at least could find where it is
    lodged, that Mr. Brook may know where to demand it. This, I presume,
    may be done.

    If you have met with Books printed by Guttenberg, you have made a great
    discovery. I thought there had been none such in the world, and began
    to look upon Fust as the first Printer. I have seen the Bishop of Ely's
    Catholicon (now with us), which, for aught I know, may have been
    printed by Guttenberg; for tho' it be printed at Ments, yet there is no
    name of the Printer, and the character is more rude than Fust's
    Tullie's Offices, whereof there are two Copies in 1465 and 1466, the
    first on vellum, the other on paper.

    May I make a small enquiry, after the mention of so great a name as
    Guttenberg? I remember, you told me, my Lord Harley had two Copies of
    Edw. the Sixth's first Common Prayer Book. Do you remember whether
    either of them be printed by Grafton, the King's Printer? I have seen
    four or five Editions by Whitchurch, but never could meet with any by
    Grafton, except one in my custody, which I shall look upon to be a
    great Rarity, if it be likewise wanting to my Lord's Collection. It
    varies from all the other Copies, and is printed in 1548. All the rest,
    I think, in 1549. One reason of my enquiry is, because I want the
    Title, for the date is at the end of the Book, and indeed twice; both
    on the end of the Communion Office, and of the Litany. But I beg your
    pardon for so small an enquiry, whilst you are in quest of Guttenberg
    and Nic. Jenson. My business consists much in trifles.

  I am, Sir,
    Your most ob. humble
      Servant,
          THO. BAKER.

    To the worthy Mr. Wanley, at the
    Riding Hood Shop, the corner
    of Chandois and Bedford Streets,
    Covent Garden,
    London.

A note in Wanley's hand says, "Mrs. Elstob has only paid a few small
scores."

III.

_Extract of a Letter from Wm. Bickford, Esq., to the Rev. Mr. Amory of
Taunton, dated Dunsland, March_ 7, 1731.

[MS. Addit., Brit. Mus., 4309, fol. 358.]

    I cannot forbear acquainting you of a very curious passage in relation
    to Charles the Second's Restoration. Sir Wm. Morrice, who was one of
    the Secretaries of State soon after, was the person who chiefly
    transacted that affair with Monk, so that all the papers in order to it
    were sent him, both from King Charles and Lord Clarendon. Just after
    the thing was finished, Lord Clarendon got more than 200 of these
    Letters and other papers from Morrice under pretence of finishing his
    History, and which were never returned. Lord Somers, when he was
    chancellor, told Morrice's Grandson that if he would file a Bill in
    Chancery, he would endeavour to get them; but young Morrice having
    deserted the Whig Interest, was {8} prevailed upon to let it drop. This
    I know to be fact, for I had it not only from the last-mentioned
    Gentleman, but others of that family, especially a son of the
    Secretaries. As soon as I knew this, I took the first opportunity of
    searching the study, and found some very curious Letters, which one
    time or other I design to publish together with the account of that
    affair. My mother being Niece to the Secretary, hath often heard him
    say that Charles the Second was not only very base in not keeping the
    least of the many things that he had promised; but by debauching the
    Nation, had rendered it fitt for that terrible fellow (meaning the Duke
    of York) to ruin us all, and then Monk and him would be remembred to
    their Infamy.

(_To be continued._)

       *       *       *       *       *

BURIAL-PLACE OF ARCHBISHOP LEIGHTON.

On a visit this autumn with some friends to the picturesque village and
church of Horsted-Keynes, Sussex, our attention was forcibly arrested by
the appearance of two large pavement slabs, inserted in an erect position
on the external face of the south wall of the chancel. They proved to be
those which once had covered and protected the grave of the good Archbishop
Leighton, who passed the latter years of his life in that parish, and that
of Sir Ellis Leighton, his brother. On inquiry, it appeared that their
remains had been deposited within a small chapel on the south side of the
chancel, the burial-place of the Lightmaker family, of Broadhurst, in the
parish of Horsted. The archbishop retired thither in 1674, and resided with
his only sister, Saphira, widow of Mr. Edward Lightmaker. Broadhurst, it
may be observed, is sometimes incorrectly mentioned by the biographers of
Archbishop Leighton as a parish; it is an ancient mansion, the residence
formerly of the Lightmakers, and situated about a mile north of the village
of Horsted. There it was that Leighton made his will, in February, 1683;
but his death occurred, it will be remembered, in singular accordance with
his desire often expressed, at an inn, the Bell, in Warwick Lane, London.

The small chapel adjacent to the chancel, and opening into it by an arch
now walled up, had for some time, as I believe, been used as a school-room;
more recently, however, either through its becoming out of repair, or from
some other cause, the little structure was demolished. The large slabs
which covered the tombs of the good prelate and his brother were taken up
and fixed against the adjoining wall. The turf now covers the space thus
thrown into the open churchyard; nothing remains to mark the position of
the graves, which in all probability, ere many years elapse, will be
disturbed through ignorance or heedlessness, and the ashes of Leighton
scattered to the winds.

In times when special respect has been shown to the tombs of worthies of
bygone times, with the recent recollection also of what has been so well
carried out by MR. MARKLAND in regard to the grave of Bishop Ken, shall we
not make an effort to preserve from desecration and oblivion the
resting-place of one so eminent as Leighton for his learning and piety, so
worthy to be held in honoured remembrance for his high principles and his
consistent conduct in an evil age?

ALBERT WAY.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Notes.

_Grammars, &c. for Public Schools._--Would it not be desirable for some
correspondents of "N. & Q." to furnish information respecting grammars,
classics, and other works which have been written for the various public
schools? Such information might be useful to book collectors; and would
also serve to reflect credit on the schools whose learned masters have
prepared such books. My contribution to the list is small: but I remember a
valuable Greek grammar prepared by the Rev. ---- Hook, formerly head master
of the College School at Gloucester, for the use of that establishment; as
also a peculiar English grammar prepared by the Rev. R. S. Skillern, master
of St. Mary de Crypt School, in the same place, for the use of that school.
I also possess a copy (1640) of the _Romanæ Historiæ Anthologia_, for the
use of Abingdon School, and _Moses and Aaron, or the Rites and Customs of
the Hebrews_ (1641), both by Thos. Godwin, though the latter was written
after he ceased to be master of the schools.

P. H. FISHER.

Stroud.

"_To captivate._"--Moore, in his Journal, speaking of the Americans
(January 9th, 1819), says:

    "They sometimes, I see, use the word _captivate_ thus: 'Five or six
    ships captivated,' 'Five or six ships captivated.'"

Originally, the words _to captivate_ were synonymous with _to capture_, and
the expression was used with reference to warlike operations. To captivate
the affections was a secondary use of the phrase. The word is used in the
original sense in many old English books. It is not used so now in the
United States.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

_Bohn's Edition of Matthew of Westminster._--Under the year A.D. 782, the
translator informs us that "Hirenes and _his_ son Constantine became
emperors." Such an emperor is not to be found {9} in the annals of
Constantinople. If Mr. Yonge, who shows elsewhere that he has read Gibbon,
had referred to him on this occasion, he would probably have found that the
Empress Irene, a name dear to the reverencers of images, was the person
meant. The original Latin probably gives no clue to the sex; but still this
empress, who is considered as a saint by her church, notwithstanding the
deposition and blinding of her own son, was not a personage to be so easily
forgotten.

J. S. WARDEN.

_French Season Rhymes and Weather Rhymes.--_

 "A la Saint-Antoine (17th January)
  Les jours croissent le repas d'un moine."

 "A la Saint-Barnabé (11th June)
  La faux au pré."

 "A la Sainte-Cathérine (25th November)
  Tout bois prend racine."

 "Passé la Saint-Clément (23rd November)
  Ne sème plus froment."

 "Si l'hiver va droit son chemin,
  Vous l'aurez à la Saint-Martin." (12th Nov.)

 "S'il n'arreste tant ne quant,
  Vous l'aurez à la Saint-Clément." (23rd Nov.)

 "Et s'il trouve quelqu' encombrée,
  Vous l'aurez à la Saint-André." (30th Nov.)

CEYREP.

_Curious Epitaph in Tillingham Church, Essex.--_

 "Hic jacet Humfridus Carbo, carbone notandus
  Non nigro, Creta sed meliora tua.
  Claruit in clero, nulli pietate secundus.
  Cælum vi rapuit, vi cape si poteris.
      Ob^t. 27 Mar. 1624. Æt. 77."

Which has been thus ingeniously paraphrased by a friend of mine:

 "Here lies the body of good Humphry Cole,
  Tho' Black his name, yet spotless is his soul;
  But yet not black tho' Carbo is the name,
  Thy chalk is scarcely whiter than his fame.
  A priest of priests, inferior was to none,
  Took Heaven by storm when here his race was run.
  Thus ends the record of this pious man;
  Go and do likewise, reader, if you can."

C. K. P.

Newport, Essex.

       *       *       *       *       *


Queries.

DOMESTIC LETTERS OF EDMUND BURKE.

In the curious and able article entitled "The Domestic Life of Edmund
Burke," which appeared in the _Athenæum_ of Dec. 10th and Dec. 17th (and to
which I would direct the attention of such readers of "N. & Q." as have not
yet seen it), the writer observes:

    "There is not in existence, as far as we know, or have a right to infer
    from the silence of the biographers, one single letter, paper, or
    document of any kind--except a mysterious fragment of one
    letter--relating to the domestic life of the Burkes, until long after
    Edmund Burke became an illustrious and public man; no letters from
    parents to children, from children to parents, from brother to brother,
    or brother to sister."

And as Edmund Burke was the last survivor of the family, the inference
drawn by the writer, that they were destroyed by him, seems, on the grounds
which he advances, a most reasonable one. But my object in writings is to
call attention to a source from which, if any such letters exist, they may
yet possibly be recovered; I mean the collections of professed collectors
of autographs. On the one hand, it is scarcely to be conceived that the
destroyer of these materials for the history of the Burkes, be he who he
may, can have got _all_ the family correspondence into his possession. On
the other, it is far from improbable that in some of the collections to
which I have alluded, some letters, notes, or documents may exist,
treasured by the possessors as mere autographs; but which might, if given
to the world, serve to solve many of those mysteries which envelope the
early history of Edmund Burke. The discovery of documents of such a
character seems to be the special province of "N. & Q.," and I hope,
therefore, although this letter has extended far beyond the limits I
originally contemplated, you will insert it, and so permit me to put this
Query to autograph collectors, "Have you any documents illustrative of the
Burkes?" and to add as a Note, "If so, print them!"

N. O.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries.

_Farrant's Anthem._--From what source did Farrant take the words of his
well-known anthem, "Lord, for thy tender mercies' sake?"

C. F. S.

_Ascension Day Custom._--What is the origin of the custom which still
obtains in St. Magnus and other city churches, of presenting the clergy
with ribbons, cakes, and silk staylaces on Ascension Day?

C. F. S.

_Sawbridge and Knight's Numismatic Collections._--In Snelling's tract on
_Pattern Pieces for English Gold and Silver Coins_ (1769), p. 45., it is
stated, in the description of a gold Coin of Elizabeth, that it is "unique,
formerly in the collection of Thomas Sawbridge, Esq., but at present in the
collection of Thomas Knight, Esq., who purchased the whole cabinet."--Can
any of your readers inform me who this Mr. Knight was, and whether his
collection is still in existence; or if it was dispersed, when, and in what
manner? I am not aware of any sale catalogue under his name.

J. B. B.

_"The spire whose silent finger points to heaven."_--I have met with, and
sometimes quoted, this line. {10} Who is its author, and in what poem does
it occur?

J. W. T.

Dewsbury.

_Lord Fairfax._--In the _Peerage of Scotland_ I find this entry:

    "Fairfax, Baron, Charles Snowdon Fairfax, 1627, Baron Fairfax, of
    Cameron; suc. his grandfather, Thomas, ninth baron, 1846. His lordship
    resides at Woodburne, in Maryland, United States."

Fairfax is not a Scotch name. And I can find no trace of any person of that
family taking a part in Scotch affairs. _Cameron_ is, I suppose, the parish
of that name in the east of Fife.

I wish to ask, 1st. For what services, or under what circumstances, the
barony was created?

2ndly. When did the family cease to possess land or other property in
Scotland, if they ever held any?

3rdly. Is the present peer a citizen or subject of the United States? If
so, is he known and addressed as _Lord_ Fairfax, or how?

4thly. Has he, or has any of his ancestors, since the recognition of the
United States as a nation, ever used or applied for permission to exercise
the functions of a peer of Scotland, _e.g._ in the election of
representative peers?

5thly. If he be a subject of the United States, and have taken, expressly
or by implication, the oath of citizenship (which pointedly renounces
allegiance to our sovereign), how is it that his name is retained on the
roll of a body whose first duty it is to guard the throne, and whose
existence is a denial of the first proposition in the constitution of his
country?

Perhaps UNEDA, W. W., or some other of your Philadelphia correspondents,
will be good enough to notice the third of these Queries.

W. H. M.

_Tailless Cats._--A writer in the _New York Literary World_ of Feb. 7,
1852, makes mention of a breed of cats destitute of tails, which are found
in the Isle of Man. Perhaps some generous Manx correspondent will say
whether this is a fact or a Jonathan.

SHIRLEY HIBBERD.

_Saltcellar._--Can any of your readers gainsay that in saltcellar the
cellar is a mere corruption of _salière_? A list of compound words of Saxon
and French origin might be curious.

H. F. B.

_Arms and Motto granted to Col. William Carlos._--Can any reader of "N. &
Q." give the _date_ of the grant of arms to Col. William Carlos (who
assisted Charles II. to conceal himself in the "Royal Oak," after the
battle of Worcester), and specify the exact terms of the grant?

[mu].

_Naval Atrocities._--In the article on "Wounds," in the _Encyc. Brit._, 4th
edition, published 1810, the author, after mentioning the necessity of a
surgeon's being cautious in pronouncing on the character of any wound, adds
that "this is particularly necessary on board ship, where, as soon as any
man is pronounced by the surgeon to be mortally wounded, he is forthwith,
while still living and conscious, thrown overboard," or words to this
effect, as I quote from memory. That such horrid barbarity was not
practised in 1810, it is needless to say; and if it had been usual at any
previous period, Smollett and other writers who have exposed with unsparing
hand all the defects in the naval system of their day, would have scarcely
left this unnoticed when they attack much slighter abuses. If such a thing
ever occurred, even in the worst of times, it must have been an isolated
case. I have not met elsewhere with any allusion to this passage, or the
atrocity recorded in it, and would be glad of more information on the
subject.

J. S. WARDEN.

_Turlehydes._--During the great famine in Ireland land in 1331, it is said
that--

    "The people in their distress met with an unexpected and providential
    relief. For about the 24th June, a prodigious number of large sea fish,
    called turlehydes, were brought into the bay of Dublin, and cast on
    shore at the mouth of the river Dodder. They were from thirty to forty
    feet long, and so bulky that two tall men placed one on each side of
    the fish could not see one another."--_The History and Antiquities of
    the City of Dublin from the Earliest Accounts_, by Walter Harris, 1766,
    p. 265.

This account is compiled from several records of the time, some of which
still exist. As the term _turlehydes_ is not known to Irish scholars, can
any of the readers of "N. & Q." say what precise animal is meant by it, or
give any derivation or reference for the term?

U. U.

Dublin.

_Foreign Orders--Queen of Bohemia._--It is well known that in some foreign
Orders the decorations thereof are conferred upon ladies. Can any of your
correspondents inform me whether the Order of the Annunciation of Sardinia,
formerly the Order of the Ducal House of Savoy, at any time conferred its
decorations upon ladies; and whether the Princess Elizabeth, afterwards
Queen of Bohemia, ever had the decoration of any foreign order conferred
upon her? In a portrait of her she is represented with a star or badge upon
the upper part of the left arm.

S. E. G.

_Pickard Family._--Is the _Pickard_, or _Picard_, family, a branch of which
is located in Yorkshire, of Norman origin? If so, who were the _first
settlers_ in England; and also in what county are they most numerous?

ONE OF THE FAMILY.

Bradford.

{11}

_Irish Chieftains._--Some account of the following, _Historical
Reminiscences of O'Byrnes, O'Tooles, O'Kavanaghs, and other Irish
Chieftains_, privately printed, 1843, is requested by

JOHN MARTIN.

Woburn Abbey.

_General Braddock._--Can any of your readers furnish me with information
relative to this officer? His disastrous expedition against Fort Du Quesne,
and its details, are well known; but I should like to know something more
of his previous history. Walpole gives an anecdote or two of him, and
mentions that he had been Governor of Gibraltar. I think too he was of
Irish extraction. Is there no portrait or engraving of Braddock in
existence?

SERVIENS.

       *       *       *       *       *


Minor Queries with Answers.

_Lawless Court, Rochford, Essex._--A most extraordinary custom exists, in a
manor at Rochford, in the tenants holding under what is called the "Lawless
Court." This court is held at midnight, by torch-light, in the centre of a
field, on the first Friday after the 29th Sept., and is presided over by
the steward of the manor, who, however, appoints a deputy to fulfil this
part of his duty. The tenants of the manor are obliged to attend to answer
to their names, when called upon, under pain of a heavy fine, or at all
events have some one there to respond for them. All the proceedings are
carried on in a whisper, no one speaking above that tone of voice; and the
informations as to deaths, names, &c. are entered in a book by the
president with a piece of charcoal. I may add, the business is not
commenced until a cock has crowed three times, and as it is sometimes a
difficult matter to get Chanticleer to do his duty, a man is employed to
crow, whose fee therefor is 5s.

Now Morant, in his _History of Essex_, merely cursorily mentions this most
singular custom, and has nothing as to its antiquity or origin; I should
therefore feel much obliged for any information concerning it.

RUSSELL GOLE.

    [The singular custom at Rochford is of uncertain origin: in old authors
    it is spoken of as belonging to the manor of Rayleigh. The following
    account of "The Lawless Court," at that place, is printed by Hearne
    from the Dodsworth MSS. in the Bodleian, vol. cxxv.:--"The manor of
    Raylie, in Essex, hath a custome court kept yearly, the Wednesday nexte
    after Michael's day. The court is kept in the night, and without light,
    but as the skye gives, att a little hill without the towne, called the
    King's Hill, where the steward writes only with coals, and not with
    inke. And many men and mannors of greate worth hold of the same, and do
    suite unto this strange court, where the steward calls them with as low
    a voice as possibly he may; giving no notice when he goes to the hill
    to keepe the same court, and he that attends not is deepely amerced, if
    the steward will. The title and entry of the same court is as
    followeth, viz.:

     'Curia de domino rege,
      Dicta _sine lege_,
      Tenta est ibidem,
      Per ejusdem consuetudinem,
        Ante ortum solis,
      Luceat nisi polus,
      Seneschallus solus,
        Scribit nisi colis.
      Clamat clam pro rege
      In curia _sine lege_:
      Et qui non cito venerit
      Citius poenitebit:
      Si venerit cum lumine
      Errat in regimine.
      Et dum sine lumine
      Capti sunt in crimine,
      Curia sine cura
      Jurata de injuria
        Tenta est die Mercuriæ
          prox. post festum S. Michaelis.'"

    Weever, who mentions this custom, says, that he was informed that "this
    servile attendance was imposed, at the first, upon certaine tenants of
    divers mannors hereabouts, for conspiring in this place, at such an
    unseasonable time, to raise a commotion."]

_Motto on old Damask._--Can your correspondents furnish an explanation of
the motto herewith sent? It is taken from some damask table napkins which
were bought many years back at Brussels; not at a shop in the ordinary way,
but privately, from the family to whom they belonged. I presume the larger
characters, if put together, will indicate the date of the event, whatever
that may be, which is referred to in the motto itself.

The motto is woven in the pattern of the damask, and consists of the
following words in uncials, the letters of unequal size, as subjoined:

    "SIGNUM PACIS DATUR LORICÆ."

the larger letters being IUMCIDULIC. If the U's are taken as two V's, and
written thus X, it gives the date MDCCLXIII. Perhaps this can be explained.

H.

    [The chronogram above, which means "The signal of peace is given to the
    warrior," relates to the peace proclaimed between England and France in
    the year 1763. This event is noticed in the _Annual Register_, and in
    most of our popular histories. Keightley says, "The overtures of France
    for peace were readily listened to; and both parties being in earnest,
    the preliminaries were readily settled at Fontainebleau (Nov. 3rd). In
    spite of the declamation of Mr. Pitt and his party, they were approved
    of by large majorities in both Houses of Parliament, and a treaty was
    finally signed in Paris, Feb. 18, 1763." The napkins were probably a
    gift, on the occasion, to some public functionary. For the custom of
    noting the date of a great event by chronograms, see "N. & Q.," Vol.
    v., p. 585.]

{12}

_Explanation of the Word "Miser."_--Can any of your readers explain how and
when _miser_ came to get the meaning of an avaricious hoarding man? In
Spenser's _Faerie Queene_, II. l. 8., it is used in its nearly primary
sense of "wretch:"

 "Vouchsafe to stay your steed for humble _miser's_ sake."

Again, _Faerie Queene_, II. 3. 8.:

 "The _miser_ threw himself, as an offall,
  Straight at his foot in base humility."

In Milton's _Comus_, which was written about fifty years after the first
three books of the _Faerie Queene,_ the present signification of the word
is complete:

 "You may as well spread out the unsunn'd heaps
  Of _miser's_ treasure by an outlaw's den,
  And tell me it is safe, as bid one hope
  Danger will sink on opportunity," &c.

J. D. GARDNER.

Bottisham.

    [The modern restricted use of the word _miser_ is subsequent to
    Shakspeare's time for in Part I. _King Henry VI._, Act V. Sc. 4.,

     "Decrepit _miser_! base ignoble wretch!"

    Steevens says has no relation to avarice, but simply means a
    _miserable_ creature. So in the interlude of _Jacob and Esau_, 1568:

     "But as for these _misers_ within my father's tent."

    Again, in Lord Stirling's tragedy of _Croesus_, 1604:

     "Or think'st thou me of judgement too remiss,
      A _miser_ that in miserie remains."

    Otway, however, in his _Orphan_, published in 1680, uses it for a
    covetous person:

     "Though she be dearer to my soul than rest
      To weary pilgrims, or to _misers_ gold,
      Rather than wrong Castalio, I'd forget thee."

    So also does Pope:

     "No silver saints by dying _misers_ given,
      Here brib'd the rage of ill-requited heaven."

_"Acis and Galatea."_--Is there any good evidence in support of the
commonly received opinion that the words to Handel's _Acis and Galatea_
were written by Gay? Hawkins merely states that they "are said to have been
written by Mr. Gay." I have no copy of Burney at hand to refer to; but I
find the same statement repeated by various other musical historians,
without, however, any authority being given for it. The words in question
are not to be found among the _Poems on several Occasions_, by Mr. John
Gay, published in 1767 by Tonson and others. Have they ever been included
in any collective edition of his works?

G. T.

Reading.

    [In the musical catalogue of the British Museum, compiled by Thomas
    Oliphant, Esq., it is stated that the words to _Acis and Galatea_ "are
    said to be written, but apparently partly compiled, by John Gay." This
    serenata is included among Gay's _Poems_ in Dr. Johnson's edition of
    the _English Poets_, 1790, as well as in Chalmers's edition of 1810,
    and in the complete edition of _British Poets_, Edinburgh, 1794.]

_Birm-bank._--The bank of a canal opposite to the towing-path is called the
_birm-bank_. What is the derivation of this?

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

    [The word _birm_ seems to have the same meaning as berme (Fr. _berme_),
    which, in Fortification, denotes a piece of ground of three, four, or
    five feet in width, left between the rampart and the moat or foss,
    designed to receive the ruins of the rampart, and prevent the earth
    from filling the foss. Sometimes it is palisaded, and in Holland is
    generally planted with quickset hedge.]

_General Thomas Gage._--This officer commanded at Boston at the breaking
out of the Revolution, and served under General Braddock. Where can I find
any details of the remainder of his history?

SERVIENS.

    [An interesting biographical account of General Gage is given in the
    _Georgian Æra_, vol. ii. p. 67.]

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies.

RAPPING NO NOVELTY.

(Vol. viii., pp. 512. 632.)

The story referred to is certainly a very curious one, and I should like to
know whether it is exactly as it was told by Baxter, especially as there
seems to be reason for believing that De Foe (whom on other grounds one
would not trust in such a matter) did not take it from the work which he
quotes. Perhaps if you can find room for the statement, some correspondent
would be so good as to state whether it has the sanction of Baxter:

    "Mr. Baxter, in his _Historical Discourse of Apparitions_, writes thus:
    'There is now in London an understanding, sober, pious man, oft one of
    my hearers, who has an elder brother, a gentleman of considerable rank,
    who having formerly seemed pious, of late years does often fall into
    the sin of drunkenness; he often lodges long together here in his
    brother's house, and whensoever he is drunk and has slept himself
    sober, something knocks at his bed's head, as if one knocked on a
    wainscot. When they remove his bed it follows him. Besides other loud
    noises on other parts where he is, that all the house hears, they have
    often watched him, and kept his hands lest he should do it himself. His
    brother has often told it me, and brought his wife, a discreet woman,
    to attest it, who avers moreover, that as she watched him, she has seen
    his shoes under the bed taken up, and nothing visible to touch them.
    They brought the man himself to me, and when we asked {13} him how he
    dare sin again after such a warning, he had no excuse. But being
    persons of quality, for some special reason of worldly interest I must
    not name him.'"--De Foe's _Life of Duncan Campbell_, 2nd ed. p. 107.

After this story, De Foe says:

    "Another relation of this kind was sent to Dr. Beaumont (whom I myself
    personally knew, and which he has inserted in his account of genii, or
    familiar spirits) in a letter by an ingenious and learned clergyman of
    Wiltshire," &c.

But he does not say that the story which he has already quoted as from
Baxter stands just as he has given it, and with a reference to Baxter, in
Beaumont's _Historical, Physiological, and Theological Treatise of
Spirits_, p. 182. Of course one does not attach any weight to De Foe's
saying that he knew Dr. Beaumont "personally," but does anybody know
anything of him? Nearly four years ago you inserted somewhat similar
inquiry about this Duncan Campbell, but I believe it has not yet been
answered.

S. R. MAITLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

OCCASIONAL FORMS OF PRAYER.

(Vol. viii., p. 535.)

From a volume of Forms of Prayer in the library of Sir Robert Taylor's
Institution, I send you the following list, as supplementary to MR.
LATHBURY'S. This volume forms part of a collection of books bequeathed to
the University by the late Robert Finch, M.A., formerly of Baliol College:

    A Form of Prayer for a General Fast, &c. 4to. London. 1762.

In both the Morning and Evening Services of this Form "A Prayer for the
Reformed Churches" is included, which is omitted in all the subsequent
Forms. This is a copy of it:

    "_A Prayer for the Reformed Churches._

    "O God, the Father of Mercies, we present our Supplications unto Thee,
    more especially on behalf of our Reformed Brethren, whom, blessed be
    Thy Name, Thou hast hitherto wonderfully supported. Make them perfect,
    strengthen, 'stablish them: that they may stand fast in the Liberty
    wherewith Christ hath made them free, and adorn the Doctrine of God our
    Saviour in all things. Preserve the Tranquillity of those who at
    present enjoy it: look down with compassion upon such as are persecuted
    for Righteousness' sake, and plead Thy cause with the oppressors of Thy
    people. Enlighten those who are in Darkness and Error; and give them
    Repentance to the Acknowledgment of the Truth: that all the Ends of the
    World may remember themselves, and be turned unto the Lord; and we all
    may become one Flock, under the great Shepherd and Bishop of our Souls,
    Jesus Christ, our only Mediator and Advocate. Amen."

    Form, &c. Fast. 1776.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1778.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1780.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1781.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1782.

    A Prayer to be used on Litany Days before the Litany, and on other days
    immediately before the Prayer for all Conditions of Men, in all
    Cathedral, Collegiate, and Parochial Churches and Chapels, &c., during
    his Majesty's present Indisposition. 1788.

The following MS. note is inserted in the handwriting of Mr. Finch, father
of the gentleman who bequeathed the collection:

    "Mrs. Finch accompanied my Father (Rev. Dr. Finch, Rector of St.
    Michael's, Cornhill) to the Cathedral, where he had a seat for himself
    and his lady assigned him under the Dome, as Treasurer to the Society
    for Promoting Christian Knowledge, the original patrons of the Charity
    Schools. Mrs. F. was so fortunate as to obtain a seat in the choir, and
    saw the procession from the choir gate. Myself and Robert saw the
    cavalcade (which was extremely grand, and continued for the space of
    more than three hours, both Houses of Parliament with their attendants
    preceding their Majesties) from Mrs Townsend's house in Fleet
    Street."--April 23, 1789.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the King's Recovery. 1789.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1793.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1795.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1796.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for many signal and important
    Victories. 1797.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1798.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the Victory of the Nile, &c. 1798.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the Victory over the French Fleet,
    Aug. 1. 1798.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for the safe Delivery of H. R. H. the
    Princess of Wales, and the birth of a Princess. 1796.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1799.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1800.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1801.

    Form and Thanksgiving for the Harvest. 1801.

    Form and Thanksgiving for putting an End to the War. 1802.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1803.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1804.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1805.

    Form of Prayer and Thanksgiving for Lord Nelson's Victory. 1805.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1806.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1807.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1808.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1809.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1810.

    Form, &c. Fast. 1812.

    Form, &c. Thanksgiving for the Peace. 1814.

    Form, &c. Thanksgiving for the Peace. 1816.

JOHN MACRAY.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

{14}

CELTIC AND LATIN LANGUAGES.

(Vol. viii., p. 174.)

There was a Query some time ago upon this subject, but though it is one
full of interest to all scholars, I have not observed any Notes worth
mentioning in reply. The connexion between these two languages has only of
late occupied the attention of philologers; but the more closely they are
compared together, the more important and the more striking do the
resemblances appear; and the remark of Arnold with regard to Greek
literature applies equally to Latin, "that we seem now to have reached that
point in our knowledge of the language, at which other languages of the
same family must be more largely studied, before we can make a fresh step
in advance." But this study, as regards the comparison of Celtic and Latin,
is, in England at least, in a very infant state. Professor Newman, in his
_Regal Rome_, has attention to the subject; but his induction does not
appear sufficiently extensive to warrant any decisive conclusion respecting
the position the Celtic holds as an element of the Latin. Pritchard's work
upon the subject is satisfactory as far as it goes, but both these authors
have chiefly confined themselves to a tabular view of Celtic and Latin
words; but it is not _merely_ this we want. What is required is a critical
examination into the comparative structure and formal development of the
two languages, and this is a work still to be accomplished. The later
numbers of Bopp's _Comparative Grammar_ are, I believe, devoted to this
subject, but as they have not been translated, they must be confined to a
limited circle of English readers, and I have not yet seen any reproduction
of the views therein contained in the philological literature of England.

As the first step to considerations of this kind must be made from a large
induction of words, I think, with your correspondent, that the pages of "N.
& Q." might be made useful in supplying "links of connexion" to supply a
groundwork for future comparison. I shall conclude by suggesting one or two
"links" that I do not remember to have seen elsewhere.

1. Is the root of _felix_ to be found in the Irish _fail_, _fate_; the
contraction of the dipththong _ai_ or _ê_ being analogous to that of
_amaïmus_ into _amêmus_?

2. Is it not probable that _Avernus_, if not corrupted from [Greek:
aornos], is related to _iffrin_, the Irish _inferi_? This derivation is at
any rate more probable than that of Grotefend, who connects the word with
[Greek: Acherôn].

3. Were the _Galli_, priests of Cybele, so called as being connected with
fire-worship? and is the name at all connected with the Celtic _gal_, a
flame? The word _Gallus_, a Gaul, is of course the same as the Irish _gal_,
a stranger.

T. H. T.

       *       *       *       *       *

GEOMETRICAL CURIOSITY.

(Vol. viii., p. 468.)

MR. INGLEBY'S question might easily be the foundation of a geometrical
paper; but as this would not be a desirable contribution, I will endeavour
to keep clear of technicalities, in pointing out how the process described
may give something near to a circle, or may not.

When a paper figure, bent over a straight line in it, has the two parts
perfectly fitting on each other, the figure is _symmetrical_ about that
straight line, which may be called an _axis of symmetry_. Thus every
diameter of a circle is an axis of symmetry: every regular oval has two
axes of symmetry at right angles to each other: every regular polygon of an
_odd_ number of sides has an axis joining each corner to the middle of the
opposite sides: every regular polygon of an _even_ number of sides has axes
joining opposite corners, and axes joining the middles of opposite sides.

When a piece of paper, of any form whatsoever, rectilinear or curvilinear,
is doubled over any line in it, and when all the parts of either side which
are not covered by the other are cut away, the unfolded figure will of
course have the creased line for an axis of symmetry. If another line be
now creased, and a fold made over it, and the process repeated, the second
line becomes an axis of symmetry, and the first perhaps ceases to be one.
If the process be then repeated on the first line, this last becomes an
axis, and the other (probably) ceases to be an axis. If this process can be
indefinitely continued, the cuttings must become smaller and smaller, for
the following reason. Suppose, at the outset, the boundary point nearest to
the intersection of the axes is distant from that intersection by, say four
inches; it is clear that we cannot, after any number of cuttings, have a
part of the boundary at less than four inches from the intersection. For
there never is, after any cutting, any approach to the intersection except
what there already was on the other side of the axis employed, before that
cutting was made. If then the cuttings should go on for ever, or
practically until the pieces to be cut off are too small, and _if this take
place all round_, the figure last obtained will be a good representation of
a circle of four inches radius. On the suppositions, we must be always
cutting down, at all parts of the boundary; but it has been shown that we
can never come nearer than by four inches to the intersection of the axes.

But it does not follow that the process _will_ go on for ever. We may come
at last to a state in which both the creases are axes of symmetry at once;
and then the process stops. If the paper had at first a curvilinear
boundary, properly chosen, and if the axes were placed at the proper angle,
it would happen that we should arrive at a {15} _regular_ curved polygon,
having the two axes for axes of symmetry. The process would then stop.

I will, however, suppose that the original boundary is everywhere
rectilinear. It is clear then that, after every cutting, the boundary is
still rectilinear. If the creases be at right angles to one another, the
ultimate figure may be an irregular polygon, having its four quarters
alike, such as may be inscribed in an oval; or it may have its sides so
many and so small, that the ultimate appearance shall be that of an oval.
But if the creases be not at right angles, the ultimate figure is a
perfectly regular polygon, such as can be inscribed in a circle; or its
sides may be so many and so small that the ultimate appearance shall be
that of a circle.

Suppose, as in MR. INGLEBY'S question, that the creases are not at right
angles to each other; supposing the eye and the scissors _perfect_, the
results will be as follows:

First, suppose the angle made by the creases to be what the mathematicians
call _incommensurable_ with the whole revolution; that is, suppose that no
repetition of the angle will produce an _exact_ number of revolutions. Then
the cutting will go on for ever, and the result will perpetually approach a
circle. It is easily shown that no figure whatsoever, except a circle, has
two axes of symmetry which make an angle incommensurable with the whole
revolution.

Secondly, suppose the angle of the creases commensurable with the
revolution. Find out the smallest number of times which the angle must be
repeated to give an exact number of revolutions. If that number be even, it
is the number of sides of the ultimate polygon: if that number be odd, it
is the half of the number of sides of the ultimate polygon.

Thus, the paper on which I write, the whole sheet being taken, and the
creases made by joining opposite corners, happens to give the angle of the
creases very close to three-fourteenths of a revolution; so that fourteen
repetitions of the angle is the lowest number which give an exact number of
revolutions; and a very few cuttings lead to a regular polygon of fourteen
sides. But if four-seventeenths of a revolution had been taken for the
angle of the creases, the ultimate polygon would have had thirty-four
sides. In an angle taken at hazard the chances are that the number of
ultimate sides will be large enough to present a circular appearance.

Any reader who chooses may amuse himself by trying results from three or
more axes, whether all passing through one point or not.

A. DE MORGAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BLACK-GUARD.

(Vol. viii., p. 414.)

Some of your correspondents, SIR JAMES E. TENNENT especially, have been
very learned on this subject, and all have thrown new light on what I
consider a very curious inquiry. The following document I discovered some
years ago in the Lord Steward's Offices. Your readers will see its value at
once; but it may not be amiss to observe, that the name in its present
application had its origin in the number of masterless boys hanging about
the verge of the Court and other public places, palaces, coal-cellars, and
palace stables; ready with links to light coaches and chairs, and conduct,
and rob people on foot, through the dark streets of London; nay, to follow
the Court in its progresses to Windsor and Newmarket. Pope's "link-boys
vile" are the black-guard boys of the following Proclamation.

PETER CUNNINGHAM.

At the Board of Green Cloth,
in Windsor Castle,
this 7th day of May, 1683.

Whereas of late a sort of vicious, idle, and masterless boyes and rogues,
commonly called the Black-guard, with divers other lewd and loose fellowes,
vagabonds, vagrants, and wandering men and women, do usually haunt and
follow the Court, to the great dishonour of the same, and as Wee are
informed have been the occasion of the late dismall fires that happened in
the towns of Windsor and Newmarket, and have, and frequently do commit
divers other misdemeanours and disorders in such places where they resort,
to the prejudice of His Majesty's subjects, for the prevention of which
evills and misdemeanours hereafter, Wee do hereby strictly charge and
command all those so called the Black-guard as aforesaid, with all other
loose, idle, masterless men, boyes, rogues, and wanderers, who have
intruded themselves into His Majesty's Court or stables, that within the
space of twenty-four houres next after the publishing of this order, they
depart, upon pain of imprisonment, and such other punishments as by law are
to be inflicted on them.

  (Signed)
          ORMOND.
          H. BULKELEY.
          H. BROUNCKER.
          RICH. MASON.
          STE. FOX.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CALVES' HEAD CLUB.

(Vol. viii., pp. 315. 480.)

The Calves' Head Club existed much earlier than the time when their doings
were commemorated in the _Weekly Oracle_ (Vol. viii., p. 315.) of February
1, 1735, or depicted in the print of 1734 (Vol. viii., p. 480.). There is a
pamphlet, {16} the second edition of which was published in small 4to., in
1703, entitled:

    "The Secret History of the Calves' Head Club, or, the Republican
    Unmasqu'd, wherein is fully shewn the Religion of the Calves-Head
    Heroes in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs on the Thirtieth of
    January, by their Anthems," &c. &c.

We are told in the latter part of the long title-page that the work was
published "to demonstrate the restless, inplacable spirit of a certain
party still among us," and certainly the statements therein, and more than
all the anthems at the end, do show the bitterest hatred--so bitter, so
intense and malignant, that we feel on reading it that there must be some
exaggeration.

The author professes to have at first been of opinion "that the story was
purely contrived on purpose to render the republicans more odious than they
deserv'd." Whether he was convinced to the contrary by ocular demonstration
he does not tell us, but gives us information he received from a
gentleman--

    "Who, about eight years ago, went out of meer curiosity to see their
    Club, and has since furnish'd me with the following papers. I was
    inform'd that it was kept in no fix'd house, but that they remov'd as
    they saw convenient; that the place they met in when he was with 'em
    was in a blind ally, about Morefields; that the company wholly
    consisted of Independents and Anabaptists (I am glad for the honour of
    the Presbyterians to set down this remark); that the famous Jerry
    White, formerly Chaplain to Oliver Cromwell, who no doubt on't came to
    sanctify with his pious exhortations the Ribbaldry of the Day, said
    Grace; that after the table-cloth was removed, the anniversary anthem,
    as they impiously called it, was sung, and a calve's skull fill'd with
    wine, or other liquor, and then a brimmer went about to the pious
    memory of those worthy patriots that kill'd the tyrant, and deliver'd
    their country from arbitrary sway; and lastly, a collection made for
    the mercenary scribler, to which every man contributed according to his
    zeal for the cause, or the ability of his purse.

    "I have taken care to set down what the gentleman told me as faithfully
    as my memory wou'd give me leave; and I am persuaded that some persons
    that frequent the Black Boy in Newgate Street, as they knew the author
    of the following lines so they knew this account of the Calves' Head
    Club to be true."

The anthems for the years 1693, 1694, 1695, 1696, and 1697, are given; but
they are too long and too stupidly blasphemous and indecent to quote here.
They seem rather the satires of malignant cavaliers than the serious
productions of any Puritan, however politically or theologically heretical.

EDWARD PEACOCK.

Bottesford Moors.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

_The Calotype Process._--I have made any first essay in the calotype
process, following DR. DIAMOND'S directions given in "N. & Q.," and using
Turner's paper, as recommended by him. My success has been quite as great
as I could expect as a novice, and satisfies me that any defects are due to
my own want of skill, and not to any fault in the directions given. I wish,
however, to ask a question as to iodizing the paper. DR. DIAMOND says, lay
the paper on the solution; then _immediately_ remove it, and lay on the dry
side on blotting-paper, &c. Now I find, if I remove immediately, the whole
sheet of paper curls up into a roll, and is quite unmanageable. I want to
know, therefore, whether there is any objection to allowing the paper to
remain on the iodizing solution until it lies flat on it, so that on
removal it will not curl, and may be easily and conveniently laid on the
dry side to pass the glass rod over it. As soon as the paper is floated on
the solution (I speak of Turner's) it has a great tendency to curl, and
takes some time before the expansion of both surfaces becoming equal allows
it to lie quite flat on the liquid. May this operation be performed by the
glass rod, without floating at all?

Photographers, like myself, at a distance from practical instruction, are
so much obliged for plain and simple directions such as those given by DR.
DIAMOND, which are the result of experience, that I am sure he will not
mind being troubled with a few inquiries relative to them.

C. E. F.

_Hockin's Short Sketch._--Mr. Hockin is so well known as a thoroughly
practical chemist, that it may suffice to call attention to the fact of his
having published a little brochure entitled _How to obtain Positive and
Negative Pictures on Collodionized Glass, and copy the latter upon Paper. A
Short Sketch adapted for the Tyro in Photography._ As the question of the
_alkalinity_ of the nitrate bath is one which has lately been discussed, we
will give, as a specimen of Mr. Hockin's book, a quotation, showing his
opinion upon that question:

    "_The sensitizing agent_, nitrate of silver in crystals, not the
    ordinary fused in sticks, is nearly always confessedly adulterated; it
    is thus employed:

    "_The silver or nitrate bath._--Nitrate of silver five drachms,
    distilled water ten ounces; dissolve and add iodized collodion two
    drachms.

    "Shake these well together, allow them to macerate twelve hours, and
    filter through paper. Before adding the nitric acid, test the liquid
    with a piece of blue litmus paper; if it remain blue after being
    immersed one minute, add one drop of dilute nitric acid[3], and test
    again for a minute; and so on, until a claret red is indicated on the
    paper. It is necessary to test the bath in a similar manner, frequently
    adding half a drop to a drop of dilute acid when required. This
    precaution will prevent the fogging due to alkalinity of the bath, so
    formidable an obstacle to young hands."

[Footnote 3: "Dilute nitric acid.--Water fifty parts, nitric acid one
part."]

_Photographic Society's Exhibition._--The Photographic Society opened their
first Exhibition of {17} Photographs and Daguerreotypes at the Gallery of
the Society of British Artists, in Suffolk Street, with a _soirée_ on
Tuesday evening last. Notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather, the
rooms were crowded not only by members of the Society, but by many of the
most distinguished literary and scientific men of the metropolis. The Queen
and Prince Albert had, in the course of the morning, spent three hours in
an examination of the collection; and the opinion they expressed, that the
exhibition was one of great interest and promise, from the evidence it
afforded of the extraordinary advance made by the art during the past year,
and the encouragement it held out to the belief that far greater excellence
might therefore still be looked for in it, was a very just one, and
embodied that given afterwards by the most competent authorities. We have
not room this week to enter into any details, but can confidently recommend
our readers to pay an early visit to Suffolk Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Replies to Minor Queries.

_"Firm was their faith," &c._ (Vol. viii., p. 564.).--These lines are to be
found in a poem called "Morwennæ Statio, hodie Morwenstow," published by
Masters in 1846, with the title of _Echoes from Old Cornwall_, and written
by the Vicar of Morwenstow. I agree with D. M. in the judgment he has
announced as to their merits; but hitherto they have been but little
appreciated by the public. A time will come however, when these and other
compositions of the author will be better known and more duly valued by the
English mind.

SAXA.

These lines were written on "the Minster of Morwenna," May, 1840, and
appeared in the _British Magazine_ under the anonymous name _Procul_. Of
the eight stanzas of which the poem consists, P. M. has quoted the second.
The second line should be read "wise _of_ heart," and the third "_firm_ and
trusting hands." With your correspondent, I hope the author's name may be
discovered.

F. R. R.

_Vellum-cleaning_ (Vol. viii., p.340.).--In the Polytechnic Institution
there are specimens of old deeds, &c., on vellum and paper, beautifully
cleaned and restored by Mr. George Clifford, 5. Inner Temple Lane, Temple,
London.

J. McK.

Shoreham.

_Wooden Tombs_ (Vol. viii., p. 255.).--In the church at Brading, Isle of
Wight--

    "There are some old tombs in the communion place, and in Sir William
    Oglander's chapel, or family burial-place, which is separated from the
    rest of the church by an oak screen. The most ancient legible date of
    these monuments is 1567. Two of them have full-length figures in armour
    of solid elm wood, originally painted in their proper colours, and
    gilt, but now disfigured by coats of dirty white."--Barber's
    Picturesque Guide to the Isle of Wight, 1850, pp. 28, 29.

J. McK.

Shoreham.

_Solar Eclipse in the Year 1263_ (Vol. viii., p. 441.).--In the
_Transactions of the Antiquarian Society of Scotland_, vol. ii. p. 350.,
there are "Observations on the Norwegian Expedition against Scotland in the
year 1263," by John Dillon, Esq.; and at pp. 363-4, when speaking of the
annular eclipse, he says:

    "The eclipse above mentioned is described to have occurred between
    these two dates [29th July and 9th August]. This being pointed out to
    Dr. Brewster, he had the curiosity to calculate the eclipse, when he
    found that there was an eclipse of the sun on 5th August, 1263, and
    which was annular at Ronaldsvo, in Orkney, and the middle of it was
    twenty-four minutes past one."

These "Observations" contain much curious information; but are deformed by
the author attempting to wrest the text of the Norwegian writer (at p. 358.
and in note I.) to suit an absurd crotchet of his own. Having seen that
essay in MS., I pointed out those errors; but instead of attending to my
observations, he would not read them, and got into a passion against the
friend who showed the MS. to me.

J. McK.

Shoreham.

_Lines on Woman_ (Vol. viii., pp. 292. 350. &c.).--The lines on Woman are,
I presume, an altered version of those of Barret (Mrs. Barrett Browning?);
they are the finale of a short poem on Woman; the correct version is the
following:

 "Peruse the sacred volume, Him who died
  Her kiss betray'd not, nor her tongue denied;
  While even the Apostle left Him to His doom,
  She linger'd round His cross and watch'd His tomb."

I would copy the whole poem, but fear you would think it too long for
insertion.

MA. L.

    [Our correspondent furnishes an addition to our list of parallel
    passages. The lines quoted by W. V. and those now given by our present
    correspondent can never be different readings of the same poem.
    Besides, it has been already shown that the lines asked for are from
    the poem entitled _Woman_, by Eaton Stannard Barrett (see antè, pp.
    350. 423.).]

_Satin_ (Vol. vii., p. 551.).--In a note just received by me from Canton,
an American friend of mine remarks as follows:

    "When you write again to 'N. & Q.' you can say that the word _satin_
    (Vol. vii., p. 551.), like the article itself, is of Chinese origin,
    and that other foreign languages, in endeavouring like the English to
    imitate the Chinese _sz-tün_, have {18} approximated closely to it, and
    to each other. Of this the answers to the Query given in the place
    referred to are a sufficient proof; Fr. _satin_, W. _sidan_, &c. &c."

I suspect that he is right, and that Ogilvie and Webster, whom you quote,
have not got to the bottom of the word. I may add that the notion of my
Canton friend receives approval from a Chinese scholar to whom I have shown
the above extract.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

_"Quid facies," &c._ (Vol. viii., p. 539.).--

    "BIERVE, _N. Maréchal_, _Marquis de_, a Frenchman well known for his
    ready wit and great facetiousness. He wrote two plays of considerable
    merit, _Les Réputations_ and _Le Séducteur_. He died at Spa, 1789, aged
    42. He is author of the distich on courtezans:

     'Quid facies, facies Veneris cum veneris ante?
      Ne sedeas! sed eas, ne pereas per eas.'"

--Lemprière's _Universal Biography_, abridged from the larger work, London,
1808.

C. FORBES.

Temple.

_Sotades_ (Vol. viii., p. 520.).--Your correspondent CHARLES REED says that
Sotades was a Roman poet 250 B.C.; and that to him we owe the line, "Roma
tibi subito," &c. Sotades was a native of Maroneia in Thrace, or, according
to others, of Crete; and flourished at Alexandria B.C. 280 (Smith's
_Dictionary of Biography_, Clinton, F. H., vol. iii. p. 888.). We have a
few fragments of his poems, but none of them are palindromical. The
authority for his having written so, is, I suppose, Martial, Epig. II. 86.
2.:

 "Nec retro lego Sotaden cinædum."

ZEUS.

_The Third Part of "Christabel"_ (Vol. viii., pp. 11. 111.).--Has the
_Irish Quarterly Review_ any other reason for ascribing this poem to Maginn
than the common belief which makes him the sole and original Morgan
Odoherty? If not, its evidence is of little value, as, exclusive of some
pieces under that name which have been avowed by other writers, many of the
Odoherty papers contain palpable internal evidence of having been written
by a Scotchman, or at least one very familiar with Scotland, which at that
time he was not; even the letter accompanying the third part of
_Christabel_ is dated from Glasgow, and though this would in itself prove
nothing, the circumstances above mentioned, as well as Dr. Moir's evidence
as to the time when Maginn's contributions to _Blackwood_ commenced, seems
strongly presumptive against his claim. Some of the earliest and most
distinguished writers in _Blackwood_ are still alive, and could, no doubt,
clear up this point at once, if so inclined.

J. S. WARDEN.

_Attainment of Majority_ (Vol. viii., pp. 198. 250.).--In my last
communication upon this subject I produced undeniable authority to prove
that the law did not regard the fraction of a day; this, I think, A. E. B.
will admit. The question is, now, does the day on which a man attains his
majority commence at six o'clock A.M., or at midnight? We must remember
that we are dealing with a question of _English_ law; and therefore the
evidence of an English decision will, I submit, be stronger proof of the
latter mode of reckoning than the only positive proof with which A. E. B.
has defended Ben Jonson's use of the former, viz. _Roman_.

In a case tried in Michaelmas Term, 1704, Chief Justice Holt said:

    "It has been adjudged that if one be born the 1st of February at eleven
    at night, and the last of January in the twenty-first year of his age
    at one o'clock in the morning, he makes his will of lands and dies, it
    is a good will, for he was then of age."--_Salkeld_, 44.; _Raymond_,
    480, 1096; 1 _Siderfin_, 162.

In this case, therefore, the testator was accounted of age forty-six hours
before the completion of his twenty-first year. Now, the law not regarding
the fraction of a day, the above case, I submit, clearly proves that the
day, as regards the attainment of majority, began at midnight.

RUSSELL GOLE.

_Lord Halifax and Mrs. C. Barton_ (Vol. viii., pp. 429. 543.).--In answer
to J. W. J.'s Query, I beg to state that I have in my possession a codicil
of Mrs. Conduit's will in her own hand, dated 26th of January, 1737. This
document refers to some theological tracts by Sir Isaac Newton, in his
handwriting, which I have. On referring to the pedigree of the Barton
family, I find that Colonel Robert Barton married Catherine Greenwood,
whose father lived at Rotterdam, and was ancestor of Messrs. Greenwood,
army agents. His issue were Major Newton Barton, who married Elizabeth
Ekins, Mrs. Burr, and Catherine Robert Barton. I find no mention of Colonel
Noel Barton. The family of Ekins had been previously connected with that of
Barton, Alexander Ekins, Rector of Barton Segrave, having married Jane
Barton of Brigstock. The writer of this note will be obliged if J. W. J.,
or any correspondent of "N. & Q.," will inform him if anything is known
respecting an ivory bust of Sir Isaac Newton, executed by Marchand or
Marchant, which is said to have been an excellent likeness.

S. X.

    [The ivory bust referred to by our correspondent is, we believe, in the
    British Museum.]

_The fifth Lord Byron_ (Vol. viii., p. 2.).--I cannot but think that MR.
HASLEDEN'S memory has deceived him as to the "wicked lord" having {19}
settled his estates upon the marriage of his son; how is this to be
reconciled with the often published statement, that the marriage of his son
with his cousin Juliana, daughter of the admiral, and aunt of the late and
present lords, was made not only without the consent, but in spite of the
opposition, of the old lord, and that he never forgave his son in
consequence?

J. S. WARDEN.

_Burton Family_ (Vol. iv., pp. 22. 124.).--In connexion with a Query which
was kindly noticed by MR. ALGOR of Sheffield, who did not however
communicate anything new to me, I would ask who was Samuel Burton, Esq.,
formerly Sheriff of Derbyshire; whose death at Sevenoaks, in October, 1750,
I find recorded in the Obituary of the _Gentleman's Magazine_ for that
year? I am also desirous to ascertain who was Sir Francis Cavendish Burton
of St. Helens, whose daughter and heiress, Martha, married Richard Sikes,
Esq., ancestor of the Sikes's of the Chauntry House near Newark. She died
since 1696. Both Samuel Burton and Mrs. Sikes were related to the Burtons
of Kilburn, in the parish of Horsley, near Derby, to whom my former Query
referred.

E. H. A.

_Provost Hodgson's Translation of the Atys of Catullus_ (Vol. viii., p.
563.).--In answer to MR. GANTILLON'S inquiry for the above translation, I
beg to state that it will be found appended to an octavo edition of
Hodgson's poem of _Lady Jane Grey_.

In the same volume will be found, I believe (for I have not the work before
me), some of the modern Latin poetry respecting which BALLIOLENSIS
inquiries. The justly admired translation of _Edwin and Angelina_, to which
the latter refers, was by Hodgson's too early lost friend Lloyd. The
splendid pentameter is slightly misquoted by BALLIOLENSIS. It is not--

 "Poscimus in _terris_ pauca, nec illa diù."

but--

 "Poscimus in _vitâ_," &c.

THOMAS RUSSELL POTTER.

Wymeswold, Loughborough.

_Wylcotes' Brass_ (Vol. viii., p. 494.).--I should hardly have supposed
that any difficulty could exist in explaining the inscription:

 "In · on · is · all."

To me it appears self-evident that it must be--

 "In one (God) is my all."

H. C. C.

_Hoby, Family of; their Portraits, &c_. (Vol. viii., p. 244.).--I would
refer J. B. WHITBORNE to _The Antiquities of Berkshire_ (so miscalled), by
Elias Ashmole; where, in treating of Bisham, that learned antiquary has
given the inscriptions to the Hoby family as existing _and legible in his
time_. It does not appear that Sir Philip Hoby, or Hobbie, Knight, was ever
of the Privy Council; but, in 1539, one of the Gentlemen of the Privy
Chamber to King Henry VIII. (which monarch granted to him in 1546-7 the
manor of Willoughby in Edmonton, co. Middlesex), Sir Thomas Hoby, the
brother, and successor in the estates of Sir Philip, was, in 1566,
ambassador to France; and died at Paris July 13 in the same year (not
1596), aged thirty-six. The coat of the Hobys of Bisham, as correctly
given, is "Argent, within a border engrailed sable, three spindles,
threaded in fesse, gules." A grant or confirmation of this coat was made by
Sir Edward Bysshe, Clarenceux, to Peregrine Hoby of Bisham, Berks, natural
son of Sir Edward Hoby, Nov. 17, 1664. The Bisham family bore no crest nor
motto.

H. C. C.

_The Keate Family_ (Vol. viii., pp. 293. 525.)--Should the Query of
G. B. B. not be sufficiently answered by the extract from Mr. Burke's
_Extinct and Dormant Baronetcies of England_ relating to the Keate family,
as I have a full pedigree of that surname, I may perhaps be able, on
application, to satisfy him with some genealogical particulars which are
not noticed in Mr. Burke's works.

H. C. C.

_Sir Charles Cotterell_ (Vol viii., p. 564.).--Sir Charles Cotterell, the
translator of _Cassandra_, died in 1687. (See Fuller's _Worthies_, by
Nuttall, vol. ii. p. 309.)

[Greek: Halieus].

Dublin.

_Huc's Travels_ (Vol. viii., p. 516.).--Not having seen the _Gardener's
Chronicle_, in which C. W. B. says the travels of Messrs. Huc and Gabet in
Thibet, Tartary, &c. are said to be a pure fabrication, concocted by some
Parisian _littérateur_, I cannot know what degree of credit, if any, is to
be given to such a statement. All I wish to communicate at present for the
information of your Querist C. W. B. is this, that I have read an account
and abstract of Messrs. Huc and Gabet's _Travels_ in one of the ablest and
best conducted French reviews, _La Revue des Deux Mondes_; in which not the
least suspicion of fabrication is hinted, or the slightest doubt expressed
as to the genuineness of these _Travels_. Mr. Princep, also, in his work on
Thibet, Tartary, &c. quotes largely from Huc's Travel's, and avails himself
extensively of the information contained in them with reference to
Buddhism, &c.

Should the writer in the _Gardener's Chronicle_ have it in his power to
_prove_ the _Travels_ to be a fabrication, he will confer a benefit on the
world of letters by unmasking the fabricator.

J. M.

Oxford.

_Pictures at Hampton Court Palace_ (Vol. viii., p. 538.).--In reply to
[Phi].'s question when the review of the 10th Light Dragoons by King {20}
George III., after the Prince of Wales assumed the command of that
regiment, I beg to state that the Prince entered the army as
brevet-colonel, Nov. 19, 1782; that the regiment received the title of "The
Prince of Wales's own Regiment of Light Dragoons" on Michaelmas Day, 1783:
that the regiment was stationed in the south of England and in the vicinity
of London for many years, from 1790 to 1803 inclusive; and that King George
III. repeatedly reviewed it, accompanied by the queen and the royal family.
That the Prince of Wales was appointed Colonel-commandant of the corps in
1793, and succeeded Sir W. A. Pitt as colonel of it in July 18, 1796. That
the regiment was reviewed on Hounslow Heath by the King in August, 1799;
and the Prince of Wales (who commanded it in person) received his Majesty's
orders to convey his Majesty's approbation of its excellent appearance and
performance. Perhaps the picture by Sir William Beechey was painted in
1799, and not 1798. I did not find the catalogue at Hampton Court free from
errors, when I last visited the palace in October, 1852.

M. A.

Pembroke College, Oxon.

_John Waugh_ (Vol. viii., pp. 271. 400. 525.).--Does KARLEOLENSIS know
whether John Waugh, son of Waugh, Bishop of Carlisle, was married, and to
whom?

Farther information of the above family would be most acceptable, and
thankfully acknowledged, by George Waugh, of the family of the Waughs of
Oulton and Lofthouse, Yorkshire.

Exeter.

_Daughters taking their Mothers' Names_ (Vol. viii., p. 586.).--When
BURIENSIS asks for instances of this, and mentions "Alicia, daughter of
Ada," as an example, is he not mistaking, or following some one else who
has mistaken, the _gender_ of the parent's name? _Alicia fil. Adæ_ would be
rendered "Alice Fitz-Adam," unless there be anything in the context to
determine the gender otherwise.

J. SANSOM.

"_Service is no Inheritance_" (Vol. viii., p. 586.).--This proverbial
saying has evidently arisen from the old manorial right, under which the
lord of the manor claimed suit and service and fealty before admitting the
heir to his inheritance, or the purchaser to his purchase. On which
occasion, the party admitted to the estate, whether purchaser or heir,
"fecit fidelitatem suam et solvit relevium;" the relief being generally a
year's rent or service.

ANON.

_Sir Christopher Wren and the young Carver_ (Vol. viii., p. 340.).--If your
correspondent A. H. has not already appropriated the anecdote here alluded
to, I think I can confidently refer him to any biographical notice of
Grindling Gibbons--to whom the story of the "Sow and Pigs" relates. Gibbons
was recommended to Sir Christopher by Evelyn, I think; but not having "made
a note of it," I am not sure that it is to be found in his _Diary_.[4] If
there be any monograph Life of Gibbons, it can scarcely fail to be found
there.

M. (2)

[Footnote 4: See Evelyn's _Diary_, vol. ii. pp. 53, 54., edition
1850.--ED.]

_Souvaroff's Despatch_ (Vol. viii., p. 490).--Souvaroff's doggerel despatch
from Ismail, immortalised by Byron, is, as usual, misspelt and
mistranslated. Allow me to furnish you with what I have never yet seen in
English, a correct version of it:

 "Slava Bogou, slava Vam;
  Krépost vziala, ee ya tam."

 "Glory to God, glory to You,
  The fortress is taken, and I am there."

DMITRI ANDRÉEF.

_Detached Church Towers_ (Vol. viii., p. 63.).--In the lists I have seen no
mention is made of the fine tower of West Walton Church, which stands at a
distance of nearly twenty yards from the body of the church.

W. B. D.

Lynn.

_Queen Anne's Motto_ (Vol. viii., p. 174.).--The Historical Society of
Pennsylvania is in possession of an English coat of arms, painted on wood
in the time of Queen Anne, having "Anna R." at the top, and the motto
_Semper eadem_ on the scroll below. It probably was in one of the
Philadelphia court-rooms, and was taken down at the Revolution.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

_Lawyers' Bags_ (Vol. vii. _passim_).--The communication of MR. KERSLEY, in
p. 557., although it does not support the inference which COL. LANDMAN
draws, that the colour of lawyers' bags was changed in consequence of the
unpopularity which it acquired at the trial of Queen Caroline, seems to
show that _green_ was at one time the colour of those professional pouches.
The question still remains, when and on what occasion it was discontinued;
and when the purple, and when the crimson, were introduced?

When I entered the profession (about fifty years ago), no junior barrister
presumed to carry a bag in the Court of Chancery, unless one had been
presented to him by a king's counsel; who, when a junior was advancing in
practice, took an opportunity of complimenting him on his increase of
business, and giving him his own bag to carry home his papers. It was then
a distinction to carry a bag, and a proof that a junior was rising {21} in
his profession. I do not know whether the same custom prevailed in the
other courts.

CAUSIDICUS.

In this city (Philadelphia) lawyers formerly carried green bags. The custom
has declined of late years among the members of the legal profession, and
it has been taken up by journeymen boot and shoe makers, who thus carry
their work to and from the workshop. A green bag is now the badge of a
cordwainer in this city.

[Old English W].

Philadelphia.

_Bust of Luther_ (Vol. viii., p. 335.).--MR. J. G. FITCH asks for
information respecting a bust of Luther, with an inscription, on the wall
of a house, in the Dom Platz at Frankfort on the Maine. I have learned,
through a German acquaintance, who has resided the greater part of his life
in that city, that the effigy was erected to commemorate the event of
Luther's having, during a short stay in Frankfort, preached near that spot;
and that the words surrounding the bust were his text on the occasion. He
adds that Luther at no period of his life "lived for some years" at
Frankfort, as stated by MR. FITCH.

ALFRED SMITH.

_Grammar in relation to Logic_ (Vol. viii., pp. 514. 629.).--H. C. K.'s
remarks are of course indisputable. But it is a mistake to suppose that
they answer my Query. In fact, had your correspondent taken the trouble to
consider the meaning of my Query, he could not have failed to perceive that
the explanation I there gave of the function of the conjunction _in logic_,
is the same as his. My Query had sole reference _to grammar_. I would also
respectfully suggest that anonymous correspondents should not impute
"superficial views," or any other disagreeable thing, to those who stand
_confessed_, without abandoning the pseudonym.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *


Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Mr. Timbs announces for publication by subscription, _Curiosities of
London: exhibiting the most rare and remarkable Objects of Interest in the
Metropolis_. Mr. Timbs states, the authorities for his work have been
four-and-twenty years in collection; and that the utmost pains has been
taken to verify names, dates, and circumstances, so as to insure accuracy.
In this labour the author has been aided by the communications of many
obliging friends, as well as by his own recollection of nearly fifty years'
changes in the aspects of "opulent, enlarged, and still increasing London."

It is proposed to publish by subscription _The Visitation of the County of
Northumberland_, taken by Richard St. George, Esq., Norroy King of Arms,
and Henry St. George, Esq., Blue Mantle Pursuivant of Arms, A.D. 1615. To
be printed in tables on folio, with the arms engraved on wood, price One
Guinea; or large paper, royal folio, Two Guineas; or large paper with the
arms emblazoned (of which only the number subscribed for will be done),
Five Guineas. Subscribers' names will be received by Mr. John Gray Bell,
No. 17. Bedford Street, Covent Garden.

The first number of the _Antiquities of Shropshire_, by the Rev. R. W.
Eyton, has just been issued for the sake of determining the author's doubts
as to whether there is any general wish for such a publication. Should the
answer be in the negative, the author will neither forget his obligation to
present subscribers, nor the explanation which he will farther owe them if
the work be discontinued. The work will extend at least to five volumes, or
twenty parts, and, according to the present plan, will be completed in not
less than five years. Any subscriber will be at liberty to withdraw his
name, by giving notice to that effect within one month after the
publication of any fourth part, or completed volume. Three hundred copies
of Part I. have been printed, but the number of the future parts will be
limited to those subscribed for within the next three months.

_The Surrey Archæological Society_ propose holding the Inaugural General
Meeting of the Society in Southwark early in the month of February, and to
exhibit upon the occasion a collection of such objects of antiquarian
interest relating to Surrey as may be contributed for that purpose. Parties
are invited to favour the Society with the loan of such objects.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--_A Peep at the Pixies, or Legends of the West_, by Mrs.
Bray: written for the entertainment of a family circle, these amusing
records of the doings of the little people will find favour with all lovers
of folk lore.--_Ada's Thoughts, or the Poetry of Youth_, may be commended
for its natural, simple, yet elevated tone.--_Essay on Human Happiness_, by
C. B. Adderley, M.P.; the first of a series of _Great Truths for Thoughtful
Hours_. A set of little books similar in object and design to Pickering's
well-known series of _Small Books on Great Subjects_.--_Beauties of Byron,
Verse and Prose._ This selection, made for Murray's _Railway Reading_, will
be acceptable to many who would object to place the collected edition of
the noble bard's writings in the hands of the younger members of their
family.--_Speeches on Parliamentary Reform_, by the Right Hon. T. B.
Macaulay. This new number of Longman's _Traveller's Library_ is well-timed,
and very acceptable.

       *       *       *       *       *


BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

ISAAC TAYLOR'S PHYSICAL THEORY OF ANOTHER LIFE.

*** Letters, stating particulars and lowest price, _carriage free_, to be
sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND QUERIES." 186. Fleet Street.

Particulars of Price, &c. of the following Books to be sent direct to the
gentlemen by whom they are required, and whose names and addresses are
given for that purpose:

SANDY'S CHRISTMAS CAROLS, Ancient and Modern. 8vo. 1833.

JUNIUS DISCOVERED, by P. T. Published about 1789.

  Wanted by _William J. Thoms_, 25. Holywell Street, Millbank, Westminster.

{22}

GALLERY OF PORTRAITS. Published by Charles Knight, under the
Superintendence of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. No.
XLIII. (December, 1835), containing Adam Smith, Calvin, Mansfield.

  Wanted by _Charles Forbes_, 3. Elm Court, Temple.

BRISTOL DROLLERY. 1674.

HOLBORN DROLLERY. 1673.

HICKS'S GRAMMATICAL DROLLERY. 1682.

OXFORD JESTS.

CAMBRIDGE JESTS.

  Wanted by _C. S._, 12. Gloucester Green, Oxford.

MUDIE'S BRITISH BIRDS. Bohn. 1841. 2nd Volume.

WAVERLEY. 1st Edition.

  Wanted by _F. R. Sowerby_, Halifax.

       *       *       *       *       *


Notices to Correspondents.

_Among other interesting communications intended for our present Number,
but which we have been compelled by want of space to postpone until next
week, are_ MR. GUTCH_'s Paper on_ Griffin and his Fidessa, MR. D'ALTON_'s
on_ James II.'s Irish Army List, _and_ DR. DIAMOND_'s on_ The Advantages of
Small Photographs.

CESTRIENSIS. _We have a letter for this Correspondent; where shall it be
sent?_

EIRIONNACH. _The letter for this Correspondent has been forwarded._

W. J. L. _The_ Merry Llyd _or_ Hewid _has already formed the subject of
some notices in our columns: see_ Vol. i., pp. 173. 315.; Vol. vi., p. 410.
_We should be glad to have any satisfactory explanation of the origin and
antiquity of the custom._

J. E. (Sampford) _is informed that there is no charge for the insertion of
Queries, &c. Will he oblige us by describing the communications to which he
refers?_

F. S. A., _who asks the origin of_ tick, _is referred to_ Vol. iii., pp.
357. 409. 502.

IGNORANT. _The_ Staffordshire Knot _is the badge or cognizance of the Earls
of Stafford: see_ Vol. viii., p. 454.

J. S. A. _will find the information he desires respecting the_
Extraordinary North Briton _in a valuable communication from_ MR. CROSSLEY,
"N. & Q.," Vol. iii., p. 432.

INDEX TO VOLUME THE EIGHTH.--_This is in a very forward state, and will, we
trust, be ready for delivery with_ No. 221. _on the_ 21_st of January._

"NOTES AND QUERIES," Vols. i. to vii., _price Three Guineas and a
Half.--Copies are being made up and may be had by order._

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published at noon on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcels and deliver them to
their Subscribers on the Saturday._

       *       *       *       *       *


THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE FOR JANUARY (being the First Part of a new Volume)
contains the following articles:--1. The Princess (afterwards Queen)
Elizabeth a Prisoner at Woodstock. 2. On supposed Apparitions of the Virgin
Mary; and particularly at La Salette. 3. Sir Walter Raleigh at Sherborne.
4. Manners and Morals of the University of Cambridge during the last
Century. 5. English Sketches by Foreign Artists--Max Schlesinger's
Saunterings in and about London. 6. Richard Baxter's Pulpit at
Kidderminster (with a Plate). 7. Cambridge Improvements, 1853. 8. The
Toxaris of Lucian. Correspondence of Sylvanus Urban: English Physicians in
Russia--Knights Banneret--Sir Constantine Phipps and Sir William
Phips--Diaries of Dr. Stukeley, &c. With Notes of the Month; Historical and
Miscellaneous Reviews; Reports of Antiquarian and Literary Societies;
Historical Chronicle; and OBITUARY, including Memoirs of the Queen of
Portugal, the Duke of Beaufort, the Countess of Newburgh, Lord Cloncurry,
Rear-Adm. Pasco, Bickham Escott, Esq., Wm. Gardiner, Esq., Mrs. Opie, Mr.
Jas. Trubshaw, C.E., Mr. Samuel Williams, &c. &c. Price 2s. 6d.

NICHOLS & SONS, 25. Parliament Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, price 2s. 6d., sewed,

A LECTURE ON THE GENIUS, LIFE AND CHARACTER OF WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE,
delivered to the Mutual Improvement Society of Welford, by FREDERICK COX,
ESQ., one of the Vice-Presidents of the Society.

  GEORGE BELL, London.
  T. C. BROWNE, Leicester.

       *       *       *       *       *


Just published, 12mo., 4s.

JANUS, LAKE POEMS, &c., and other Poems, by DAVID HOLT.

London: W. PICKERING, Piccadilly; and GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


Demy 8vo., 2s.; cloth gilt, 3s.

THE HISTORY OF MILLWALL, commonly called the Isle of Dogs; including
Notices of the West India Docks and City Canal, and Notes on Poplar,
Blackwall, Limehouse, and Stepney. By B. H. COWPER.

R. GLADDING, 97. & 98. Whitechapel Road.

       *       *       *       *       *


TO ARTISTS, ENGRAVERS, PRINTSELLERS, ETC.

This Day, 8vo., 3s. 6d.

THE LAWS OF ARTISTIC COPYRIGHT, AND THEIR DEFECTS. For the Use of Artists,
Sculptors, Engravers, Printsellers, &c. BY D. ROBERTON BLAINE, ESQ., of the
Middle Temple, Barrister-at-Law.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


WORKS BY EDWARD JESSE, ESQ.

Now Ready.

JESSE'S COUNTRY LIFE. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 6s.

   II.

JESSE'S NATURAL HISTORY. Seventh Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 6s.

   III.

JESSE'S FAVOURITE HAUNTS. With Twenty Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 12s.

JOHN MURRAY, Albermarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


JUST PUBLISHED.--A CATALOGUE of VALUABLE BOOKS, including a portion of the
Library of the RIGHT HON. WARREN HASTINGS, now on Sale by THOMAS KERSLAKE,
Bookseller, Bristol. (Franked for One Postage Stamp.)

       *       *       *       *       *


VIEWS IN LONDON. STEREOSCOPES AND STEREOSCOPIC PICTURES.

BLAND & LONG, 153. FLEET STREET, OPTICIANS and PHILOSOPHICAL INSTRUMENT
MAKERS, invite attention to their Stock of STEREOSCOPES of all Kinds, and
in various Materials; also, to their New and Extensive Assortment of
STEREOSCOPIC PICTURES for the same, in DAGUERREOTYPE, on PAPER, and
TRANSPARENT ALBUMEN PICTURES on GLASS, including Views of London, Paris,
the Rhine, Windsor, &c. These Pictures, for minuteness of Detail and Truth
in the Representation of Natural Objects, are unrivalled.

BLAND & LONG, Opticians, 153. Fleet Street, London.

*** "Familiar Explanation of the Phenomena" sent on Application.

       *       *       *       *       *


PULLEYN'S COMPENDIUM.

One Volume, crown 8vo., bound in cloth, price 6s.

THE ETYMOLOGICAL COMPENDIUM; or, PORTFOLIO OF ORIGINS AND INVENTIONS:
relating to

  Language, Literature, and Government.
  Architecture and Sculpture.
  Drama, Music, Painting, and Scientific Discoveries.
  Articles of Dress, &c.
  Titles, Dignities, &c.
  Names, Trades, Professions.
  Parliament, Laws, &c.
  Universities and Religious Sects.
  Epithets and Phrases.
  Remarkable Customs.
  Games, Field Sports.
  Seasons, Months, and Days of the Week.
  Remarkable Localities, &c. &c.

By WILLIAM PULLEYN.

The Third Edition, revised and improved,

By MERTON A. THOMS, ESQ.

    "The additions to this book indicate the editor to be his father's own
    son. He deals in folk lore, chronicles old customs and popular sayings,
    and has an eye to all things curious and note-worthy. The book tells
    everything."--_Gentleman's Magazine._

    "The book contains a vast amount of curious information and useful
    memoranda."--_Literary Gazette._

    "An invaluable manual of amusement and information."--_Morning
    Chronicle._

    "This is a work of great practical usefulness. It is a _Notes and
    Queries_ in miniature.... The revision which the present edition of it
    has undergone has greatly enhanced its original value."--_Era._

London: WILLIAM TEGG & CO., 85. Queen Street, Cheapside.

       *       *       *       *       *


NOW READY, MR. DOD'S PEERAGE, &c.

New Edition for 1854; thoroughly revised, with many Improvements.

PEERAGE, BARONETAGE, KNIGHTAGE, &c., for 1854 (Fourteenth Year): by CHARLES
R. DOD, Esq., Author of "The Parliamentary Companion," "Electoral Facts,"
&c. Fcp. 8vo., handsomely bound in cloth, gilt.

WHITTAKER & CO., Ave-Maria Lane.

       *       *       *       *       *


{23}

WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY.

3. PARLIAMENT STREET, LONDON.

Founded A.D. 1842.

       *       *       *       *       *

  _Directors._

  H. E. Bicknell, Esq.
  T. S. Cocks, Jun. Esq., M.P.
  G. H. Drew, Esq.
  W. Evans, Esq.
  W. Freeman, Esq.
  F. Fuller, Esq.
  J. H. Goodhart, Esq.
  T. Grissell, Esq.
  J. Hunt, Esq.
  J. A. Lethbridge, Esq.
  E. Lucas, Esq.
  J. Lys Seager, Esq.
  J. B. White, Esq.
  J. Carter Wood, Esq.

  _Trustees._--W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.; George Drew, Esq., T. Grissell,
      Esq.
  _Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.
  _Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through temporary
difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given upon application to
suspend the payment at interest, according to the conditions detailed in
the Prospectus.

Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100l., with a Share in
three-fourths of the Profits:--

  Age       £   s.  d.
   17       1  14   4
   22       1  18   8
   27       2   4   5
   32       2  10   8
   37       2  18   6
   42       3   8   2

ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

Now ready, price 10s. 6d., Second Edition, with material additions,
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION: being a TREATISE ON BENEFIT BUILDING
SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of Land Investment, exemplified in
the Cases of Freehold Land Societies, Building Companies, &c. With a
Mathematical Appendix on Compound Interest and Life Assurance. By ARTHUR
SCRATCHLEY, M.A., Actuary to the Western Life Assurance Society, 3.
Parliament Street, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


ALLEN'S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, containing Size, Prices, and Description of
upwards of 100 articles, consisting of

PORTMANTEAUS, TRAVELLING-BAGS, Ladies' Portmanteaus, DESPATCH-BOXES,
WRITING-DESKS, DRESSING-CASES, and other traveller requisites, Gratis on
application, or sent free by Post on receipt of Two Stamps.

MESSRS. ALLEN'S registered Despatch-box and Writing-desk, their
Travelling-bag with the opening as large as the bag, and the new
Portmanteau containing four compartments, are undoubtedly the best articles
of the kind ever produced.

J. W. & T. ALLEN, 18. & 22. West Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *


BENNETT'S MODEL WATCH, as shown at the GREAT EXHIBITION. No. 1. Class X.,
in Gold and Silver Cases, in five qualities, and adapted to all Climates,
may now be had at the MANUFACTORY, 65. CHEAPSIDE. Superior Gold London-made
Patent Levers, 17, 15, and 12 guineas. Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 4
guineas. First-rate Geneva Levers, in Gold Cases, 12, 10, and 8 guineas.
Ditto, in Silver Cases, 8, 6, and 5 guineas. Superior Lever, with
Chronometer Balance, Gold, 27, 23, and 19 guineas. Bennett's Pocket
Chronometer, Gold, 50 guineas; Silver, 40 guineas. Every Watch skillfully
examined, timed, and its performance guaranteed. Barometers, 2l., 3l., and
4l. Thermometers from 1s. each.

BENNETT, Watch, Clock, and Instrument Maker to the Royal Observatory, the
Board of Ordnance, the Admiralty, and the Queen,

65. CHEAPSIDE.

       *       *       *       *       *


XYLO-IODIDE OF SILVER, exclusively used at all the Photographic
Establishments.--The superiority of this preparation is now universally
acknowledged. Testimonials from the best Photographers and principal
scientific men of the day, warrant the assertion, that hitherto no
preparation has been discovered which produces uniformly such perfect
pictures, combined with the greatest rapidity of action. In all cases where
a quantity is required, the two solutions may be had at Wholesale price in
separate Bottles, in which state it may be kept for years, and Exported to
any Climate. Full instructions for use.

CAUTION.--Each Bottle is Stamped with a Red Label bearing my name, RICHARD
W. THOMAS, Chemist, 10. Pall Mall, to counterfeit which is felony.

CYANOGEN SOAP: for removing all kinds of Photographic Stains. The Genuine
is made only by the Inventor, and is secured with a Red Label bearing this
Signature and Address, RICHARD W. THOMAS, CHEMIST, 10. PALL MALL,
Manufacturer of Pure Photographic Chemicals: and may be procured of all
respectable Chemists, in Pots at 1s., 2s., and 3s. 6d. each, through
MESSRS. EDWARDS, 67. St. Paul's Churchyard; and MESSRS. BARCLAY & CO., 95.
Farringdon Street, Wholesale Agents.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHY.--HORNE & CO.'S Iodized Collodion, for obtaining Instantaneous
Views, and Portraits in from three to thirty seconds, according to light.

Portraits obtained by the above, for delicacy of detail rival the choicest
Daguerreotypes, specimens of which may be seen at their Establishment.

Also every description of Apparatus, Chemicals, &c. &c. used in this
beautiful Art.--123. and 121. Newgate Street.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC CAMERAS.--OTTEWILL'S REGISTERED DOUBLE-BODIED FOLDING CAMERA,
is superior to every other form of Camera, for the Photographic Tourist,
from its capability of Elongation or Contraction to any Focal Adjustment,
its Portability, and its adaptation for taking either Views or
Portraits.--The Trade supplied.

Every Description of Camera, or Slides, Tripod Stands, Printing Frames,
&c., may be obtained at his MANUFACTORY, Charlotte Terrace, Barnsbury Road,
Islington.

New Inventions, Models, &c., made to order or from Drawings.

       *       *       *       *       *


IMPROVEMENT IN COLLODION.--J. B. HOCKIN & CO., Chemists, 289. Strand. have,
by an improved mode of Iodizing, succeeded in producing a Collodion equal,
they may say superior, in sensitiveness and density of Negative, to any
other hitherto published; without diminishing the keeping properties and
appreciation of half tint for which their manufacture has been esteemed.

Apparatus, pure Chemicals, and all the requirements for the practice of
Photography. Instruction in the Art.

THE COLLODION AND POSITIVE PAPER PROCESS. By J. B. HOCKIN. Price 1s., per
Post, 1s. 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHY.

A COMPLETE SET OF APPARATUS for 4l. 4s., containing an Expanding Camera,
with warranted Double Achromatic Adjusting Lenses, a Portable Stand,
Pressure Frame, Levelling Stand, and Baths, complete.

PORTRAIT LENSES of double Achromatic combination, from 1l. 12s. 6d.

LANDSCAPE LENSES, with Rack Adjustment, from 25s.

A GUIDE to the Practice of this interesting Art, 1s., by post free, 1s. 6d.

French Polished MAHOGANY STEREO-SCOPES, from 10s. 6d. A large assortment of
STEREOSCOPIC PICTURES for the same in Daguerreotype, Calotype, or Albumen,
at equally low prices.

ACHROMATIC MICROSCOPES.

Beautifully finished ACHROMATIC MICROSCOPE, with all the latest improvement
and apparatus, complete from 3l. 15s., at

C. BAKER'S. Optical and Mathematical Instrument Warehouse, 244. High
Holborn (opposite Day & Martin's).

       *       *       *       *       *


Important Sale of Rare Books, Books of Prints, and Illuminated Manuscripts.

MESSRS. S. LEIGH SOTHEBY & JOHN WILKINSON, Auctioneers of Literary Property
and Works illustrative of the Fine Arts, will SELL by AUCTION, at their
House, 3. Wellington Street, Strand, on MONDAY, January 9, 1854, and Three
following Days, at 1 o'clock precisely, an Important COLLECTION of RARE
BOOKS, Books of Prints, Illuminated and Historical Manuscripts, from the
Library of a distinguished Amateur, deceased:--comprising, The Grand Work
on Egypt, executed under the munificent direction of Napoleon I., the
original edition on vellum paper, 23 vols. The Beautiful and Interesting
Series of Picturesque Voyages by Nodier, Taylor, and De Cailleux; Barker,
Webb et Berthélot, Histoire Naturelle des Iles Canaries, a magnificent
work, in 10 vols. with exquisitely coloured plates; Algérie. Historique,
Pittoresque et Monumentale, 5 vols. in 3; Le Vaillant, Histoire Naturelle
des Oiseaux, on vellum paper, the plates beautifully coloured, 3 vols.;
Melling, Voyage Pittoresque de Constantinople, 2 vols. in 1; Montfaucon,
Antiquité Expliquée, avec Supplément et les Monumens de la Monarchie
Françoise, 20 vols., a most beautiful copy, in morocco, of the best
edition, on large paper; Sebæ Rerum Naturalium Thesaurus, 4 vols., an
exceedingly choice copy in rich French morocco; Museum Worsleyanum, 2
vols., on large paper; Shaw, Illuminated Ornaments, on large paper, the
plates exquisitely illuminated in gold and colours; Beroalde de Verville,
Le Moyen de Parvenir, a very fine copy of the rarest Elzevir edition;
Cieza, Historie del Peru, 1560-64, rare; Boccaccio, Il Decamerone, Ven.
1492, extremely rare; Consolat dels Fets Maritims, very rare; Denyaldi,
Rollo Northmanno-Britannicus, fine copy, and very scarce; Henninges,
Theatrum Genealogicum, 4 vols. in 5; Le Merre, Recueil des Notes concernant
les Affaires du Clergé de France, 13 vols., a beautiful copy; Mandeville,
Le Grande Lapidaire, 1561, an extremely rare edition; Renversement de la
Morale Chrétienne, rare; Verheiden in Classem Xerxis Hispani Oratio, very
rare; Rare Works relating to England; Books of Emblems; A curious and
interesting Volume in German, giving an Account of the Crusades against the
Turks by the Christians, printed by Bämler. in 1482; Some highly
interesting Historical and other Manuscripts; Finely illuminated Horæ and
Missals; and an interesting Fragment in the Autograph of Rousseau.

To be viewed Two Days prior, and Catalogues had; forwarded Free on receipt
of Six Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *


PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS, MATERIALS, and PURE CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS.

KNIGHT & SONS' Illustrated Catalogue, containing Description and Price of
the best forms of Cameras and other Apparatus. Voightlander and Son's
Lenses for Portraits and Views, together with the various Materials, and
pure Chemical Preparations required in practising the Photographic Art.
Forwarded free on receipt of Six Postage Stamps.

Instructions given in every branch of the Art.

An extensive Collection of Stereoscopic and other Photographic Specimens.

GEORGE KNIGHT & SONS, Foster Lane, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


{24}

BOOKS SUITABLE FOR CHRISTMAS PRESENTS,

PUBLISHED BY MR. JOHN HENRY PARKER, OXFORD; AND 377. STRAND, LONDON.

THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYER. With Fifty Illustrations, from Designs by
Ancient and Modern Artists. Selected by the REV. H. J. ROSE and REV. J. W.
BURGON. In One handsome Volume, 8vo. The Prayer-Book is printed in very
large type, with the Rubrics in red. Elegantly bound in antique calf, with
vermillion edges, 2l. 2s.

DAILY CHURCH SERVICES.

In One Portable Volume, containing the Prayers and Lessons for Daily Use;
or, the Course of Scripture Readings for the Year, authorised by the
Church. Also, a Table of the Proper Lessons for Sundays and Holydays, with
References to the Pages. Price 10s. 6d., bound; or 16s. in Hayday's
morocco.

    This volume will be found equally useful to those who read the Church
    Service at home, as for those who use it at church, as the lessons and
    services for every day are distinctly marked, forming a very suitable
    book for a present. It is also kept by any respectable bookseller in a
    variety of elegant bindings.

OF THE IMITATION OF CHRIST. Four Books. By THOMAS à KEMPIS. A New Edition,
revised, handsomely printed in fcap. 8vo., with Vignettes and red floriated
borders taken from the ancient MSS. Cloth, 5s. Also in antique calf
binding, vermillion edges, 10s. 6d.

THE CALENDAR OF THE ANGLICAN CHURCH ILLUSTRATED. With brief Accounts of the
Saints who have Churches dedicated in their Names, or whose Images are most
frequently met with in England; the Early Christian and Mediæval Symbols:
and an Index of Emblems. With numerous Woodcuts, Fcap. 8vo., 10s. 6d.; or
bound in antique calf. 16s.

A HISTORY of the CHURCH OF ENGLAND, to the REVOLUTION of 1688. By the late
REV. J. B. S. CARWITHEN, B.D. A new Edition, edited by the REV. W. R.
BROWELL, M.A., 2 vols. small 8vo., 12s.

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS. By JOHN BUNYAN. A New Edition, adapted by the REV.
J. M. NEALE, M.A., for the Use of Children of the Church of England. Fcap.
8vo., handsomely bound in gilt cloth, with Woodcuts, 3s. 6d.

TRACTS FOR THE CHRISTIAN SEASONS. First Series. Four Vols., cloth, 18s.

TRACTS FOR THE CHRISTIAN SEASONS. Second Series. Four Vols., cloth, 15s.

SERMONS FOR THE CHRISTIAN SEASONS. A Series of Plain Sermons for Sunday
Reading. Four Vols., fcap. 8vo., 16s.

A PLAIN COMMENTARY on the GOSPEL of ST. MATTHEW, with numerous
Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo., 6s. 6d.

WILSON'S SACRA PRIVATA. From the original MSS. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo.,
antique cloth, red edges, 6s.; antique calf, red edges, 12s.

THE PSALTER AND THE GOSPEL. The Life, Suffering, and Triumph of our Blessed
Lord, revealed in the Book of Psalms. Fcap. 8vo., uniform with the Plain
Commentary on the Four Holy Gospels. 2s.

    A selection of the most striking of the parallel passages contained in
    the Psalter and the Gospel.

SCOTLAND and the SCOTTISH CHURCH. By the REV. HENRY CASWALL, M.A., Vicar of
Figheldean, Wilts; Author of "America and the American Church." &c. &c.,
and a Proctor in Convocation for the Diocese of Salisbury. Fcap. 8vo., 5s.

A SHORT EXPLANATION of the NICENE CREED, for the Use of Persons beginning
the Study of Theology. By A. P. FORBES, D.C.L., Bishop of Brechin. Fcap
8vo., cloth, 6s.

TEN SERMONS IN ILLUSTRATION OF THE CREED. By the REV. W. G. TUPPER, Warden
of the House of Charity, Soho; and late Scholar of Trinity College, Oxford.
Fcap. 8vo., cloth, 4s.

    "In his 'Sermons on the Creed,' Mr. Tupper has condensed, with much
    painstaking, and an evident sense of deep responsibility, the dogmatic
    teaching of the Church."--_Christian Remembrancer._

A NEW EDITION of DAILY STEPS TOWARDS HEAVEN. A Small Pocket Volume,
containing a few Practical Thoughts on the Gospel History; with Texts for
every Day in the Year, commencing with Advent. Fifth Edition. In roan
binding, gilt edges, 2s. 6d.

DESCRIPTIONS OF CANAAN; being an Account of the Mountains, Rivers, and
Towns of the Holy Land. By the REV. C. P. WILBRAHAM. Fcap. 8vo., with Map,
cloth, 1s.

*** This Manual is particularly adapted to the use of Parochial Schools.

       *       *       *       *       *

TALES AND STORIES FOR CHRISTMAS.

OLD CHRISTMAS. A Tale. 16mo. 6d.

THE SINGERS OF THE SANCTUARY, and the MISSIONARY. Two Tales. By the Author
of "Angels' Work." 16mo. 2s. 6d.

ANGELS' WORK; or, the Choristers of St. Mark's. Second Edition. 2s.

ANN ASH; or, the History of a Foundling. A Narrative founded on Fact. By
the Author of "Charlie Burton," "The Broken Arm," &c. 18mo. 2s.

KENNETH; or, the Rear Guard of the Grand Army. By the Author of "Scenes and
Characters," "Kings of England," "Heir of Redclyffe," &c. Second Edition.
Fcap. 8vo. 5s.

SPECULATION A Tale. By the REV. W. E. HEYGATE. Fcap. 8vo. 5s.

PASTOR OF WELBOURNE AND HIS FLOCK. 18mo. 2s.

LITTLE MARY. Third Edition. 18mo. 1s.

HENRY VERNON; or, the Little Anglo-Indian. A New Edition. 18mo. 1s.

ADA'S THOUGHTS; or, the Poetry of Youth. Fcap. 8vo., cloth, gilt edges, 2s.
6d. (Just Ready.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SMALL BOOKS FOR PRESENTS.

THE PRACTICAL CHRISTIAN'S LIBRARY: a Series of Cheap Publications for
General Circulation.

                                                  s. d.
  Learn to Die (Sutton)                           1  0
  Private Devotions (Spinckes)                    1  6
  The Imitation of Christ (à Kempis)              1  0
  Manual of Prayer for the Young (Ken)            0  6
  The Golden Grove (Taylor)                       0  9
  Life of Ambrose Bonwicke                        1  0
  Life of Bishop Bull (Nelson)                    1  6
  Companion to the Prayer Book                    1  0
  Selections from Hooker (Keble)                  1  6
  Practical Christian (Sherlock). Part I.
  2s.; Part II. 2s.; 1 vol.                       4  0
  Learn to Live (Sutton)                          2  0
  Doctrine of the English Church (Heylin)         0  8
  Holy Living (Bp. Taylor)                        1  6
  Holy Dying (Bp. Taylor)                         1  6
  Tracts on the Church (Jones of Nayland)         1  6
  The Figurative Language of Holy Scripture
  (Jones of Nayland)                              1  6
  Confessions of St. Augustine                    1  6
  Exposition of the Catechism (Nicholson)         1  6
  Thoughts on Religion (Pascal)                   1  6
  Wilson on the Lord's Supper                     1  0
  Wilson's Sacra Privata                          1  0

LITTLE BOOKS FOR PRESENTS,

SELECTED FROM THE PAROCHIAL TRACTS.

                                                  s. d.
  Words of Advice and Warning, limp               1  6
  Baptism, limp                                   1  0
  The Chief Truths, limp                          1  0
  The Church Service, limp                        1  6
  The Holy Catholic Church, limp                  1  0
  Tracts on the Ten Commandments, limp            1  0
  Confirmation, limp                              1  0
  The Lord's Supper, limp                         1  0
  Meditation and Payer, limp                      1  0
  Tracts for Female Penitents, limp               1  6
  Tracts on the Prayer Book, cloth                3  0
  Daily Office for the Use of Families, roan      1  0
  Tales and Allegories, illustrated, cloth, gilt  3  6
  Parochial Tales, cloth, gilt                    2  6
  Tracts for Cottagers, cloth, gilt               2  0
  Devotions for the Sick, cloth                   2  6


       *       *       *       *       *

THE PENNY POST for 1853 is now ready, bound in cloth, lettered, with
Frontispiece, price 1s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *


Printed by THOMAS CLARK SHAW, of No. 10. Stonefield Street, in the Parish
of St. Mary, Islington, at No. 5. New Street Square, in the Parish of St.
Bride, in the City of London; and published by GEORGE BELL, of No. 186.
Fleet Street, in the Parish of St. Dunstan in the West, in the City of
London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet Street aforesaid.--Saturday, January
7. 1854.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Number 219, January
7, 1854, by Various

